[Music]
We've been concerned about inflation for
a while.
>> We're getting what we expected on
inflation.
>> You are seeing more evidence of a
softening in labor market conditions.
>> The economy is gradually grinding to a
halt here.
>> The economy is set to reacelerate.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, looking for another week of
gains as the S&P 500 puts together a
4-day winning streak. More soft labor
market data is keeping the Fed on course
to cut and Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson is preparing to lay the
groundwork for a Trump summit.
>> Do these guys ever sleep? That's all I
can say because through the weekend
they're going to be overseas in Europe
trying to create some sort of groundwork
for late October a Trump summit in
China. And my question is, do we have a
better sense of what the ultimate goal
is here? What is the relationship
between the US and China that we're
looking at at a time of incredible
confusion given Russia secondary
sanctions, Mexico putting tariffs up,
and how much we can get a sense of what
the ultimate goal here really is? We're
going to a weekend when trade risk now
is once again kind of top of the agenda.
You mentioned Mexico, China coming out
with a statement saying the US has
abuses abused tariffs around the world
and that has sparked widespread global
opposition. At the same time, the
Treasury Secretary is about to sit down
with Hila Fang. So, you could see there
is this sort of trade angst still
percolating at least in the geopolitical
space for a lot of these third countries
like Mexico. They might have to choose
between Washington and Beijing.
>> It's setting us up for a big week next
week, not just on the trade front, but
on monetary policy as well. Next week,
it's not about cuts, it's about
guidance. Is this going to be a midcycle
adjustment or a full easing cycle?
>> Yeah. And does it really matter what the
guidance is given that we don't know
what the composition of the Fed is going
to be early next year? Right now, the
market is betting that the Fed will be
able to cut possibly three times this
year and do so credibly. Michael
Hartnett saying that these this market
is betting the Fed can stay ahead of the
curve and cut into a reaceleration. Sort
of this Goldilocks 5.0 wherever we are
in terms of Goldilocks. And I just
wonder how much the Fed can support that
or is the Fed coming out and confirming
that almost a risk event because it's
all been priced in. I think we've got to
talk about this bond market. Really
interesting development taking place
over the last let's say 2 weeks through
August. This curve steepened led by the
front end through September this curve
is flattening led by the long end.
That's a new development.
>> So there are two ways to interpret this.
One is that it's actually acting as a
safe haven trade once again as people
worry about the labor market and say
longer term maybe the trajectory isn't
as positive. The second theory here is
actually more interesting. It's that
this administration really wants to get
the long end of the yield curve down
below 4% possibly at 3%. That is that
perfect 3% goal that Scott Besset has
put out there and they could be creative
with how the Treasury and the Fed work
together and that is increasingly coming
into this idea maybe this trade's gone a
little too far given that type of
potential surprise on the horizon. The
10's around 4% so far this morning. 30s
remember being on 5% watch for 30s 30s
back down to 465.
Coming up this hour, John Stous of
Oppenheimer with stocks of fresh alltime
highs. Ed Mills of Raymond James on new
talks between the US and China and
Andrew Honhorse of City as the Fed gets
the all clear to cut rates next week. We
begin this hour with stock steady after
another rally to record highs. John Sto
of Oppenheimer the biggest bull on Wall
Street writing the following. We do not
expect any dramatic cuts from the Fed,
but rather measured trims. John joins us
now for more. John, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Love that, don't you? Biggest bull on
Wall Street. How I said good morning to
you when I first saw you this morning.
Alltime highs on the S&P, record highs
on the NASDAQ, not too far away on small
caps. Are trimmed cuts enough?
>> I think trim cuts will be enough. And
and I think the wonderful thing about
trim cuts is for for the Fed what it is
is the economic data particularly around
the jobs number has offered an
opportunity of essentially a freehaul
pass. So if if uh the Fed chair and the
FOMC committee committee come out with a
a cut, it's not politics. It's just the
dual mandate uh and looking at at what
the job the weakness in the jobs market
and adding some liquidity to the system.
And it's also an anniversary shot in
September. If they do 25 bips or if they
do even 50, the market should be able to
take it, digest it.
>> Let's address that weakness in a jobs
market. Are we testing the limits of bad
news being good news for stocks? uh you
know I I I I think somewhere in the
middle of that John it depends the way
traders look at it and the way uh uh
intermediate to longer term investors
who are investing for retirement which
is a multigenerational effort now that
has changed the tone of the private
investor and and the size and presence
of the the uh individual private
investor more than I've ever seen it in
42 years.
>> At this point we're watching what the
Fed signals next week and how that
really will play forward. And John was
talking about, you know, he didn't say
these words because he hates these
words, but a hawkish cut or a dovish
cut. And there's this question going
forward if they are alluded to it. You
alluded to it because you tried not to
say it, which I admire and you did that
very well, but I of course am going to
violate that. I I guess I'm curious if
they are dovish. If they do indicate
that this is something more than a
midcycle adjustment, does that make you
more bearish?
>> Uh, well, it it would be Would that make
me become bearish? Because I'm not
bearish.
Okay. would make you a little less
bullish.
>> Yeah. Yeah, it it it Well, it would
certainly make me take a look at the
data, see where we're going, and take a
look at what the what what the the terms
were that the the when the Fed chair is
reporting to the press, uh how things
went and and answering questions. But
overall, you know, what we've seen
really over the last couple of years has
been the size of the US economy and the
resilience that exhibited both by
corporations and by the consumer. I mean
the consumer the soft data is oh they're
so worried about inflation yet the
consumer is still spending you know it
and at different things but but also
prudently you know it it this day of of
of of digitalization and and and
information going around the world
fairly quickly. It really is remarkable
when you look at the US economy around
30 trillion in size still way ahead of
China after all these years of us
hearing that China was going to surpass
us and everything else. uh it hasn't
happened and uh we think a lot of that
is related to innovation. The Federal
Reserve has done its job, we think,
remarkably well. Uh, you know, once they
got out from being behind the curve in
in whatchamacall in March of 2022, so
far with all the hikes, all the pauses,
and very few cuts, no recession.
Remarkable.
>> A lot of people who are listening to you
are probably nodding along with this
idea of innovation, especially when it
comes to technology and how much that's
powered what we've seen in the US equity
markets. Can that continue powering it
given how inflated expectations are and
how difficult it is to price in a sea
change in technology innovation at the
scale that say Oracle is predicting?
Well, I I would say it I think it it the
the what type of uh uh uh overvaluation
is being placed by by investment or or
capex at this point really is in the
eyes and the ears of the beholder
because maybe the investments that are
being made across the 11 sectors to
participate in what AI can do both for
the consumer as well as for uh
businesses uh may be uh this may be
appropriate what we're seeing uh it it's
this is so different than the you know I
remember the tech bubble you know I mean
I'm like father time 42 years in the
business good lord it's shocking you
know I still feel 35 but it's like
nearly a hundred you know at this point
and but when I look at it it's just this
is this is not this is not beginners
technology this is if anything is
technology that needs to be has to be
checked somewhat by regulation necessary
but not by too much regulation and yet
what it offers in in in a world in which
uh we have not reproduced enough to
replace ourselves. AI may be able to
fill things out in factories and in
offices where there might be shortages
of employees. I do think in case you
think I'm just being too bullish or too
positive. No, I wouldn't say what does
concern me is is when we look at the the
the current environment is moving
forward the first trunch beyond what we
see in technology of uh of layoffs will
be a shock to the system and will cause
a lot of questions as to how we're going
to deal with it. But I think it's an
opportunity for corporations to step up
and train personnel really position
ourselves for what is genuinely a new
economy that we are moving towards.
based on innovation.
>> John, that's what I wanted to ask you to
accept this innovation. Do we need to
accept that we're just going to have
bigger layoffs and less jobs in the
economy?
>> Well, I think if it I think that's the
first part, you know, that that it gets
I think we need to prepare for that. And
I think already we've heard Elon Musk
and others mention the the things that
may be necessary to be considered it. uh
it it really it if we if we meet it with
retraining looking for opportunities
because the biggest thing is as
wonderful as the machines can be people
love to deal with human beings they just
do or not all of us love deal I know
that okay let's not but but at the same
time just think if if you're trying to
get some customer service you know it's
rare that you find an outfit that has
real good uh beginners AI in those chat
boxes and things to to settle things.
>> When you mentioned the consumer as well,
yesterday we did see household
furnishings becoming a bit more
expensive, clothing, airfares are up,
are you concerned about more of a tariff
pass through as we progress throughout
2025?
>> I think most certainly in the near term
and then I think as we go forward, if we
see if we see the benefits that the
administration expects from it in
reducing uh uh our our deficits, I think
that would be it would be very much
helpful. And I also think in addition to
that what we haven't seen yet across the
sectors in a broad format is the
reintroduction of competition. And
usually you know my generation went
through hyperinflation uh relative for
the US uh back in the late 70s early 80s
and it took years to to get rid of that
inflation. stickiness in in inflation.
Uh the institutional memory is
relatively short, but for the for the
humans that went through it, gosh, it
takes a while. But eventually you find
people who go, "Hey, wait a minute. If I
give up uh what what I'm charging on a
per unit price and do volume, I can
really get ahead of my competition, my
competitors." when that begins and it'll
start you you we've seen a little bit of
it earlier this year in the airlines. Uh
uh but now it's going the other way and
that's it's demand is what's doing that.
>> What you said about AI I think is so so
important. What you're acknowledging is
that it's going to be regressive up
front. This is something that Luke car
former colleague has talked about
extensively and something Lisa's
hammered home on again and again and
again over the last month or so is that
we could see a real decoupling between
the performance of the stock market and
the direction of the labor market. Is
that what you think people are
comfortable with going into 26?
>> Oh, you know, at least at at this point,
I don't think that the market is is
looking as much to 26 yet as to the end
of this year. I really think I think
when we start looking at it in 26, it'll
probably bring up a bit uh somewhat
periods of volatility. uh when we see
catalysts in terms of news items and
things that'll they'll make uh uh
traders, skeptics and bears give them an
opportunity to take profits without FOMO
and what likely is a is a secular bull
market based on the degree of innovation
we have today.
>> John, it's good to see you. 7100, right?
>> 7100. We're sticking with it right now.
>> Biggest bull on Wall Street. John Stef
there of Alenheimer. John, thank you,
sir. It's good to see you. Thank you.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahara for more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. A man hunt is ongoing for the
shooter who killed Charlie Kirk this
week. The FBI released a surveillance
video of the suspect dressed in black
and seen darting across a rooftop
swinging over the edge and walking past
a parking lot at Utah Valley University.
You can see it there. Uh Utah Governor
Spencer Cook says the state will pursue
the death penalty against Kirk's killer.
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump has
asked the federal appeals court to pause
a lower court decision blocking his
ouster of Fed Governor Lisa Cook. The
request for a stay or order would likely
allow the firing to take effect before
the appeal is formally heard. The
administration wants a ruling by Monday,
which is the day before the Fed's policy
meeting. And shares of Warner Brothers
Discovery are surging 5.6% 6% in the
pre-market following reports that
Paramount Sky Dance is preparing a bid
for the company. Sources say Warner
Brothers CEO David Sazoff believes he
can get a hefty premium for his
streaming and studios business once
they're separated from the cable
business. The Paramount offer is being
backed by the Ellison family. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yahara in
about 30 minutes time. Plus, we'll get
to that story too. I want to talk about
this as well. Rage CEO Gary Freriedman.
see this story over at Restoration
Hardware maybe my new favorite CEO just
in terms of communication.
>> Yeah. Going forward. Uh just very blunt
and this is something that we're going
to keep hearing. To me I think that
honestly CEOs are going to get rewarded
for their blindness.
>> Unless you want to go effing bankrupt.
Excuse my language. Direct quote in a
market like this you know and stand
there and be righteous and say and I'm
not promoting. Good luck to you.
Described it as the third year of the
worst housing market I've seen in my 38
years in the industry. Well, at least
he's being honest and ultimately he's
not alone. We're hearing that from a lot
of different potential uh home builders
and frankly this has been one of the big
uh criticisms of this economy.
>> We'll come back to that story too later
this morning. Big mover overnight.
Equity futures down by about a tenth of
1%. Up next, tough talks with China.
>> Obviously, our largest trade deficit is
with China and China does not have the
same profit objective that other Western
democracies do. My view has been that
they would continue to eat the tariffs.
>> Up next, Ed Mills of Raymond James live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
Coming into Friday on a 4-day winning
run on the S&P 500. The longest daily
winning streak going back to July.
Record highs as we head into the
weekend. Equity futures this morning
pulling back just a little bit. We're
down by a tenth of 1% on the S&P just
about unchanged on the NASDAQ 100 this
morning. Tough talks with China.
Obviously our largest trade deficit is
with China and China does not have the
same profit objective that other western
democracies do. So that is an employment
agency and my view has been that they
would uh continue to eat the tariffs. Uh
they are doing that. So I I think what
we've seen uh is likely to continue
happening.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
US Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
preparing for fresh talks with Chinese
leadership. The two sides meeting in
Madrid next week, expecting to lay the
groundwork for a Trump summit.
>> And there's been a series of meetings
this week alone. We had the inaugural
meeting between Defense Secretary Pete
Hegsath and his counterpart Marco Rubio
got on the phone with Wang Yei. So all
of this potentially is building up to a
bigger leadertoleer summit. This could
come on the sidelines at APEC if both
these leaders are set to attend. Likely
that can happen. Will they have a summit
there? Potentially. You could see the
president of the United States making it
a little bit bigger, making a splash,
going to say Beijing. What I find
interesting about this meeting is two
deadlines to watch. September 17th, Tik
Tok just keeps being pushed back. That
is on the table for Hi Fang and Trust
Secretary Bessant, as well as the fact
that the trade truce that ends in
November. So, there's a lot of issues
that these two countries need to work
out.
>> What stuck out for me, Madrid. Madrid's
an odd choice for these talks to take
place. It's it's very odd given the fact
that you have a leader in Spain that has
really been cowtowing to Beijing
>> and push back against the White House.
>> Pushing back against the White House
saying that they are the ones that are
basically defending Europe in the face
of the United States by what? Becoming
closer to China. I'm just going to look
at as they've already done Switzerland,
they've done London. Maybe they just
wanted to, you know, go to Southern
Europe. Maybe Italy would have been a
better choice.
>> Maybe Madrid is the Beijing of Europe.
Okay, Eric, Adam,
>> just like an Adams thing.
>> No, I'm just saying, you know, maybe
this is sort of like neutral ground
because it has sort of an appeal to both
sides. Treasure check is also going to
be meeting with Spanish counterparts.
Maybe this is his chance to explain what
the Chinese are actually doing, which is
dumping on their markets and will
actually kill their industries like
we've seen them do when it comes to
German manufacturing base and we see
them doing in Mexico.
>> I think the Spanish government might be
happy with that comparison. By the way,
>> that might actually work. politically.
Well, let's move on.
>> Ed Mills Raymond James has this to say.
The relationship is being carefully
managed. We expect both countries to
continue to extend 90-day tariff truses.
Ed joins us now for more. Ed, welcome to
the program, sir. So, we're setting the
stage maybe for a summit between the two
leaders. Where do you think there is
perhaps a topic that's just proving very
very difficult to find a breakthrough
on?
>> Well, I'd go back to the first thing
that Donald Trump wanted to talk about
with China and it is on fentanyl. uh it
is on kind of trade tariff tariff
barriers generally. Um I do believe that
the president believes what the treasury
secretary said that when uh Trump puts
tariffs on China uh they will subsidize
a lot of that cost. Um we go back to the
first administration. Uh we have the
phase one trade deal that was never
really implemented. Uh, President Trump
did start off this conversation with
saying um before they can sit down uh
they wanted to see progress on
implementing what he signed uh back in
2020. Uh we haven't seen that. I do
think the real reason we are meeting is
because China was much more forceful in
their response this time where they
stopped sending uh rare earth minerals.
We couldn't make a magnet. We were
really close to shutting down a lot of
industrial production here in this
country. Uh that was an economic
emergency that I think has been really
under reportported. Um and we got those
back on and Trump has sent a message to
everyone in his administration. Find a
way to get me a meeting and he thinks he
can get into a room with she and cut a
deal. The problem with that is that she
does not like to go into a room unless
it's 98 90% 99% set. And so we could
have a personality clash come November
once they do sit down. Ahead of that
potential meeting, do we have a sense of
what the framework of any type of deal
might look like, of what the ultimate
goal is of both the United States and of
China?
>> Yeah, Lisa, it's a good question. I
would probably look at the other trade
deals that we've been working on. Um,
they are kind of memorandums of
understanding. I don't think we're going
to have a deal completely fleshed out. I
do think the goal is trying to not uh
escalate things so that we can continue
to get what we need from China. uh we
will go into those meetings with a list
of things that we would restrict to
China if they continue to um push back
against um you know kind of our demands.
We also want to make sure that China is
not an impediment uh to peace between uh
Russia and Ukraine. I do think that we
can't overlook the fact that um we have
not put sec secondary sanctions on China
for their purchase of Russian energy
because we are concerned if we do that
could break down those talks as well.
>> Well and that's exactly where I wanted
to go. this question around the US
response to Russia and a question about
when the US will place secondary
sanctions on China, on India. How much
is this potential trade talk an obstacle
to actual harder action against Russia
right now since that complicates it
dramatically?
>> Yeah. So I think when I've talked to
clients at Raymond James, we have a deal
that we thought we were going to have
with India and because the
administration couldn't get that deal
and they're annoyed with India, they
keep on increasing uh the kind of
rhetoric and the sanctions and the
secondary kind of tariffs on India
because they don't have a trade deal
because they want a trade deal with
China and they are concerned that that
could blow it up. they are not going to
be putting these secondary sanctions on
China as long as they think they can get
a deal. And I do think it's also really
interesting that Trump is not going
directly towards China. He's trying to
get others. They're like, "All right, EU
um put on a 100% tariff on these goods
with China." And I I've always gone back
to the fact that probably what our
number one ask with the EU uh trade deal
is choose a side. Is it the United
States or China? They want us to make
sure that they choose the United States
within the EU. Um, and things like the
automobile industry, you know,
manufacturing, don't have those joint
ventures with China, have those joint
ventures with the United States. So,
we're actually instead of ramping up
pressure on China directly, we're going
to all of our allies and asking them to
do the dirty work.
>> Ed, who has the leverage right now,
Beijing or Washington?
>> Um, I think it depends on the issue. I
do think that uh President Xi has a lot
of pressure on him. Uh there's a lot of
questions about the Chinese economy.
There are a lot of things that the
United States has that China needs.
However, China had moved first in the
leverage that they put on us. And so in
the first round here um in Trump 2.0, uh
China did have additional leverage that
I think came as surprise uh to the Trump
administration which has caused them to
kind of reorient and try to get this
Trump summit. Uh she will not come to
the United States to do this. Uh, Donald
Trump, I do think your reporting is
absolutely correct, Emory. Doing it on
the sidelines of the Apex summit or that
big splash going to China on the way to
the Apex Summit in South Korea is
probably what they have in mind.
>> But Ed, just in the past few minutes,
you mentioned a number of issues.
Fentanyl, what's going on in Iran,
Russia, China dumping on other markets.
What is China's number one ask of the
United States?
Um I think that their number one ask is
to somewhat stand down and kind of make
sure that we um probably don't implement
a lot of what we've done. And I think
what we have seen is in these
conversations when we say we want you to
buy more. China says well there's one
thing that we really want to buy. It's
semiconductors and it's semicap
equipment. uh and that is part of the
reason why uh Trump has already allowed
for the licensing of Nvidia and AMD
chips that he previously blocked. I
don't think that they're going to be
able to kind of expand um some of those
um kind of relief on those restrictions
uh to other semiconductors. But if there
is one thing that China really does
want, it's our technology.
>> Will he get it? Ed Mills of Raymond
James. Ed, thank you, sir. Will Jens
Wang succeed in pushing the US
government to agree? It's pretty
fascinating that Johnson Huang is with
President Trump in this visit overseas
over to Europe. So is Sam Alman. So you
start wondering how much of a carrot in
a stick the tech companies are. They're
right alongside him with all of these
negotiations.
>> They're going to be pushing pretty hard
for next week and well into next year
and beyond. Up next on the program,
Robert Fishman of Moffin Nathansson
joins us on a potential media mega deal.
Plus, we touch base with Danny. She's
got your morning movers and some fiery
commentary from the CEO of Restoration
Hardware. RH is down in the pre-market
by almost 10%. The broader market is
doing okay. Equity futures down by about
a tenth of 1%, just pulling back from
alltime highs on the S&P 500. Record
highs on the S&P, record highs on the
NASDAQ from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Equities
[Music]
negative this morning, but positive on
the week. We're down by about a tenth of
1% so far on the S&P, but heading
towards another week of gains on the S&P
and on the NASDAQ. On the Russell, small
caps are positive for a sixth
consecutive week as we look to close out
the trading week this Friday. Equity
futures, Russell 2000 futures negative
by 0.5. Let's get you some movers going
into the opening about 3 hours away.
Here's Danny Burgerer with more. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. A couple things working in
Microsoft's favor early this morning.
Shares are up 1.4%. First, you had the
Open AI decision to make them look more
like a for-profit company. They'd had
some really painful negotiations with
Microsoft, so helps them keep that
partnership. And also elsewhere,
Microsoft avoiding a very hefty penalty
from the EU around their team's
products, choosing instead to settle
with authorities there. Elsewhere, it is
another day at least it is on track to
be of a rally for Warner Brothers up six
and a third percent after yesterday
clocking its best single day gain on
record. This off the heels of Paramount
Sky Dance looking at a bid for Warner
Bros. Discovery would be backed by the
Ellison family and looking at taking the
whole thing. This is a company that had
been looking at breaking up. Does this
change its fortune? Finally in furniture
R8 shares getting pummeled in the
pre-market down nearly 10%. They cut
their outlook for the year, cited $30
million worth of a tariff hit. Maybe
more interesting though, the CEO on the
earnings call talking about how this is
an industry in turmoil that needs to
have heavy discounts in order to lure
shoppers in because of the housing
markets. I won't repeat exactly what he
said because it would literally get me
fired, but it was something along the
lines of unless you want to go effing
bankrupt, you need to discount your
furniture sales. John,
>> I think direct quotes are okay. We would
have excused that, Danny. Thank you.
Thank you very much. No pricing power.
Home builders have rallied aggressively.
They've taken off and you've got a
furniture provider turning around and
telling you that things are absolutely
terrible and we've got no pricing power.
>> This is also a CEO who came out pretty
viciferously against the tariffs. You do
wonder exactly what he is speaking to
and you wonder whether this is
consistent throughout the industry. At
the same time, I also wonder if it's
clearing some of the inventory before
whatever is to come next year. That
said, pricing power, the lack therein
highlights the reason we haven't seen
any kind of runaway inflation. Stock is
down by about 10% so far this morning.
On our radar this morning, one of our
top stories, the manhunt continues.
Authorities are still searching for the
killer of conservative activist Charlie
Kirk, who was fatally shot Wednesday at
a Utah university. The FBI releasing new
footage of a person of interest fleeing
the scene. Elsewhere, a trade warning
from China. The Ministry of Commerce
urging Mexico to quote, "Excuse extreme
caution and think twice before imposing
new tariffs on Chinese goods." Mexico
announcing plans to impose duties of as
much as 50% on cars and other products
made by China. And finally, the race for
the next Fed share is heating up.
According to reports, Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson is meeting with new
candidates to replace Fed share J Pal.
In recent days, he met with former Fed
officials, including Larry Lindseay,
Kevin Walsh, and Jim Bullard. So, these
are all people who have been close to
the Federal Reserve before, which is
notable given the fact that we're
currently talking about Steven Myron,
who hasn't been on the Fed as
potentially getting there as soon as
Monday with a vote in Congress. It
raises the question in my mind whether
this is trying to create a lot of drama,
but ultimately piss picking uh Chris
Waller. And the reason why I say that is
because essentially you're looking for
someone that has credibility in markets
and you're looking for someone with that
institutional knowledge of the Fed, not
an outsider. that is notable to me even
as we pack on the names and create a
process that sounds very dramatic or
James Bullard his mentor and then having
two almost Bullard Waller thinking types
on the Federal Reserve. What I find
interesting is I don't feel that there
is this real urgency from the
administration to want to get this
shored up ASAP. And do you know why?
Because the Fed is about to cut interest
rates. It is moving in their direction.
So they can sort of the Trump Trump will
come out and say too late because he
feels vindicated. He feels I was able to
feel the market. I was correct. Powell
was behind. He was too late. We have
seen that now and it's going to be
twice. But I don't get the sense that
they're going to come out and
immediately need to pick someone. So you
know the Treasury Secretary is even
adding to the list and he's going to
have as many interviews as he wants.
>> I'll keep this brief. What struck me
about this list, these three, is that
two of them are really well known as
being small balance sheet guys. They're
not the kind of people that I think
would be compatible with the kind of
things that maybe the president would
like to see in the next four years and
beyond.
>> So is the speculation that Scott Besson
is trying to set up the field, game the
field? I don't know.
>> Or is it that Scott Besson feels
differently than other people and really
is targeting 3% on that 10-year yield?
This is the reason why people feel like
whoever is going to be the next Fed
chair will be creative with the balance
sheet. Maybe not necessarily expand it,
but creative and work in tandem with the
Treasury to help suppress some of those
long-term yields. I think Amarie makes a
really great point though. You don't
sense a great rush right now. No panic.
They seem to be happy with this process
just going forward slowly.
>> Yeah. And a scapegoat. I mean ultimately
you have uh damned if you do, damned if
you don't. Regardless of what happens in
the economy, you can turn around and
say, "Oo, too late.
>> It's the Fed. It's Chairman Pal's
fault." Let's turn to M&A. Isn't it
always Chairman Pal's fault? You know,
it's great.
>> It's always his fault. It's his fault.
Paramount Sky Dance is preparing a bid
to buy rival studio Warner Brothers
Discovery. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the offer will reportedly be
mostly cash for the entire company
including its cable networks and movie
studio. Joining us now to discuss is
Keith Ragenathan of Bloomberg
Intelligence. Keith, welcome to the
program. Let's just talk about what's
happening here. This was a company that
was about to split in two. Why is this
solution better for shareholders?
>> Yeah, this is uh you know this this the
timing of this John I think is is what
is really throwing off a lot of
investors. So we know that Warner
Brothers Discovery had announced uh back
in June a plan to separate out its
secularly challenged TV networks from
the studio and streaming business. This
paramount bid and and so always I mean
the interest was going to be for you
know the crown jewels in the business
which is you know the studio and the
streaming portion. Uh so ju just this
paramount bid kind of coming in first of
all why it's better for investors is
because it's going to be an allcash bid.
Uh most importantly it has the backing
of the Ellison family. Uh I think that
makes a huge difference. Um and you know
the it's it's it's a bid that is going
to include the cable networks which by
the way is not a desirable asset right
now. Uh and so the fact that you know uh
we have a taker for all of the assets I
think makes it definitely appealing.
>> Ga let's talk about some of the
companies involved here. Paramount Plus
getting together with HBO Max CBS News
together with say CNN. Are they great
synergies or are they messy
relationships?
great synergies right now. I mean, we
just have Paramount. What's really
interesting here, John, is we just had
Paramount, which freshly just combined
with Sky Dance and and when we spoke
about that deal, uh they were talking
about $2 billion in synergies. You think
about a company, the scale of Warner
Brothers Discovery, all of the different
assets that it has in its portfolio. You
brought up the TV networks. We're
thinking something like uh, you know, 4
to5 billion in synergies at the very
least. I I mean there's just a whole lot
of different cost efficiencies across
the TV networks across the studios that
can be achieved here. So it makes a ton
of strategic a ton of economic sense.
>> Githa Rakenathan of Bloomberg. Githther,
thank you. Appreciate it. Robert
Fishman, senior research analyst, the
Moff Nathansson is writing this. We view
the news as a key milestone in the
Warner Brothers Discovery success story
and potentially the opening of a second
chapter for a growing media
conglomerate. Robert joins us now for
more. Robert, welcome to the program,
sir. Let's just start with the basics.
What's to like this morning with this
potential tie-up?
>> Well, I think as you just heard, uh what
what you have is a lot of potential
strategic combination between these two
players. Um we've been talking for a
long time about the lack of scale on
streaming. And what this does is really
help accelerate the streaming story by
putting two subscale players together to
help better compete in the in the
current landscape. Then you also have to
go to the cost savings that that were
just discussed. We're still working
through our assumptions, but essentially
um there will be a lot of extra cost
synergies putting these portfolios
together. And then really what this does
for Warner Brothers Discovery is allow
them to accelerate that timeline that
that you just talked about and really
for investors to to see the payoff of
how valuable these assets are like HBO
and Max and Warner Brothers Studios. So,
it really is is a really uh strong
evidence of the value in the Warner
Brothers portfolio.
>> Once upon a time, the idea of CBS and C
CNN being combined and the idea of
synergies read probably job losses and
some consolidation of efforts would have
raised concerns by regulators will it
still or has the landscape changed so
much competitively that it doesn't
necessarily reach that level?
>> Yeah, it's a really interesting
question. Um, I I would say that the
landscape has clearly changed. You know,
back to to my first point, streaming is
first and foremost here, and that's
where all the eyeballs are going. Um,
and already, you know, essentially are
for for for a lot of the the parts in
the media business. Um, on news
specifically, yes, it does seem like the
strategic combination of a CBS news with
a CNN would be something that that makes
a lot of sense um, from a cost-savings
standpoint and strategically to to put
those two assets together.
>> How much do you think that Warner
Brothers is going to hold off on any
kind of deal because they were planning
on splitting up and they did believe
that each of the pieces was worth a lot
more than the whole? We are seeing a
premium here in terms of the Paramount
Sky Dance offer from Ellison, but do you
think that it's enough or do you think
that it's going to have to be sweetened?
>> Well, I I I think we're we're going to
see how this all plays out. So, this is
just kind of the the first salvo and
really um what we're really waiting to
see is if there's going to if the the
Paramount um Sky Dance bid is is going
to bring in other bidders here uh
because that potentially has the
opportunity to as we've seen in past the
these are premium um you know very very
uh demanded assets especially when you
think about the the studio and streaming
and HBO. So, if this is the opportunity
for other companies to explore that,
that that's something that we're waiting
to see if if that's going to bring in
other potential biders here,
>> potentially a price war. Who else could
bid for these assets?
>> Well, I mean, if you go through the
list, uh, clearly Comcast is a potential
bidder. Um it's unclear, you know, to
the regular regulatory point if they're
going to look to uh enter into into the
fray and and you know, put their hat in
the ring, but um I I think Comcast has
long been discussed again from the
streaming side and also from the studio
side and and other assets that that this
can be part of that. The question is
they're going through their own um spin
with Versant and you know essentially do
they want to change strategies as well?
um that that that's that's that's a
remains an open question. Um you know,
obviously the the digital big bidders um
are someone ones that that we all have
to look at um and and see whether or not
they want to really throw their hat in
the ring again from the regulatory side
and even a company like Apple if they
really want to go allin on media.
>> How much more consolidation could we
see, Robert, in this space?
>> Well, th this is a big one. Um, we we've
been waiting for something like this for
a little while now. Again, talking about
the the potential dance partners with a
a Comcast, with Warner Brothers
Discovery, and and Paramount being the
the three key players. Um, so, you know,
I think this is going to lead to other
potential dominoes that that could fall,
but but clearly that this is the the big
one that we're all focused on right now.
>> Robert, appreciate your update and your
take this morning. Thanks for making
time for us. Robert Fishman there of
Moffett Nathansson, CBS together with
CNN, something we've been talking about
since the late '9s, early 2000s. And
here we are. And as you pointed out,
it's a perfect point. This is a very
different environment compared to 25
years ago.
>> This would never have been allowed 25
years ago because they would have been
thought to be uh something of an
oligarchy when it came to disseminating
news. Now, people get their news in lots
of different ways and there are lots of
different competitors. I just wonder
whether this subjects this whole deal to
less scrutiny or whether it still will
have the same kind of resonance
especially given some of the creative
output and the demand for some of these
properties.
>> Futures this morning down by about a
tenth of 1% on the S&P. If you are just
joining us, welcome to the program.
Let's get you some news, some top
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara with more. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. Brazil's former president
Shahid Bro has been sentenced to over 27
years in prison. He was convicted on
charges he sought to cling to power by
plotting a military coup that included
plans to assassinate current president
Luis Ignasio Ula Dilva. Bolsinaro's
lawyers are expected to appeal his
sentence. The US has warned it will act
accordingly to what it called a witch
hunt. Meanwhile, the first full month of
President Donald Trump's tariffs set a
new all-timely record by bringing in
nearly $30 billion according to the
latest monthly statement from the US
Treasury Department. Net customs
receipts for the fiscal year, which ends
on September 30th, are at a record more
than 165 billion. And President Donald
Trump attended the New York Yankees game
last night in the Bronx, speaking to
members of the team, including Aaron
Judge ahead of their September 11th game
against the Detroit Tigers. The Yankees
came out on top 9 to3 with Aaron Judge
hitting two home runs, tying Joe De
Jaggio for fourth on the franchise's
all-time home runs list. That's your
brief, John.
>> Yara, thank you. And guess who was in
Yankee Stadium? Drum roll. I think you
know the answer to that.
>> It was incredible. Not just Yankee Stad.
I'm wearing my Yankee jacket on Air
Force One with the president.
>> What did the president say?
>> The president went into, you know,
behind the scenes went went and met the
team and he talked about two things I
thought were really funny. One, Aaron
Judge guy couldn't be bigger. To make
Donald Trump actually look not as tall
as he is is pretty astounding. Like he's
67. The guy is huge. And then on top of
that, he said they're going to go all
the way. And I think Aaron Judge thinks
he was a good look charm. He's hit two
home runs. So he might have to get the
president at more Yankee games. We want
to see them go into the World Series.
>> Very cool. Up next on the program,
paving a way for rate cuts.
>> We're thinking of the inflation
trajectory as more of a plateau rather
than a mountain. It does look like the
Fed will cut. We still think they'll
have to be quite cautious in cutting.
So, we only have two cuts in this cycle
under Chair Powell.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Andrew
Honhorse of City live from New York.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Equities
are negative this morning. We're down a
tenth of 1% on the S&P. Record highs
coming into Friday on both the S&P 500
and NASDAQ 100. with the NASDAQ just
about unchanged under surveillance this
morning paving the way for rate cuts.
>> We've been concerned about inflation for
a while. Not necessarily the impact of
changes to trade policy, but just
underlying inflation. We think that's
been stuck around 2 1/2% for a long time
now. We're thinking of the inflation
trajectory as more of a plateau rather
than a mountain. It does look like the
federal cut. We still think they'll have
to be quite cautious in cutting. So we
only have two cuts in this cycle under
chair pow.
>> So here's the latest this morning. A
busy week of economic data paving the
way for the Fed to cut interest rates
next week. Andrew Honhorse of City
writing, "We continue to expect 125
basis points of rate cuts over the next
five FOMC meetings with growing risk
that the Fed will continue cutting
interest rates below 3%." Andrew joins
us now for more. Andrew, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Got to get to that 3% call in just a
moment, but I want to address the data
of the last 24 hours. So jobless claims
came in close to four-year highs.
Sparked a bit of concern. Then we got
into the numbers and it screams one
state, it screams Texas. Is there
anything to be concerned about here at
all?
>> Yeah, I mean I think you always have to
watch the jobless claims numbers. What
we would look for is is this going to be
sustained movement up in jobless claims.
A lot of times you get one week of data
and it's weekly data, right? You're
trying to seasonally adjust weekly data
in a holiday week spiked up in one
state. So you never take that too
seriously. So, so I'd be kind of
cautious in terms of getting too
concerned about that number.
>> The broader backdrop though, the
totality of the data, as the Fed likes
to say, hasn't been great on the labor
market side of things. When we go into
next week, we're talking about the
following midcycle adjustment or the
start of a really big easing cycle. And
you've alluded to it. Are we going to
stop at 3% or will we need to go even
further? I
>> I think it's increasingly clear that
we're going to get to at least 3%. And
you look at the jobs data and we do have
some conflict in the data. If you look
at the household survey where the
unemployment rate comes from,
unemployment rate has been more stable.
It did move up in the last report. Um,
you look at the payrolls data and with
these revisions, um, it's just fallen
apart. I mean, we're running at 29,000
jobs per month on a moving average
basis, just 22,000 jobs last month. You
look at the benchmark revisions and say
maybe we're overstating that payrolls
number each month. So, you know,
subtract a little for that. We're we're
probably close to zero job growth in
terms of payrolls. Um, so there there's
no question that you want to be moving
rates at least back towards a more
neutral setting. Um, I think with the
cooler inflation data that we're getting
now, you can really start thinking about
do do they actually move below 3%.
>> Hold on a second. The cooling inflation
data cooling. Sure. We're still above 3%
on an a year-over-year basis. You still
haven't gotten below 2% going back more
than four years. Is that enough at this
point to be actually a reason for the
Fed to cut aggressively? Well, I think
the the reason to cut aggressively is
the jobs data, what we're seeing in the
labor market. The question is, how
constrained are you by inflation to your
point? And and you're right. You look at
core PC inflation, we're still above 3%.
When we looked at the CPI report
yesterday, though, this is really
interesting. You map that through to
core PCE inflation. We're getting just
0.20%
month-on-month core PCE inflation. So,
that's monthly annualized core inflation
that's running pretty close to 2%. And
that year-on-year figure maybe going to
come down to 2.9%. So we we could get
below 3% on a year-on-year basis. We're
running close to 2% on a monthly basis.
And remember, this is August inflation
data. This was meant to be the the peak
of tariff pass through and you know the
high inflation that we were going to see
and we're close to target. So I think
there's a lot less of a constraint on
the inflation side. Um that's maybe more
underappreciated by the market right
now. Um I think everyone's acknowledging
now that you have this risk on the labor
market side. I'm pretty clear what the
Fed's going to do here. Meanwhile, we've
got the restoration hardware CEO cursing
out the investors because of their
inability to have pricing power. So, it
raises a question of further
disinflation. There is a feeling though
that going forward there is going to be
a reaceleration of the economy, thus the
bet on small caps, thus the bet on
equities. And how much do you see that
as sort of predicated on the Fed cuts
that you're talking about that that will
ignite the reaceleration of growth that
so many people are are hinging their
bets on? There's a little bit of a
disconnect between markets here and this
is I hear this when I speak with
investors also that equity market I
think definitely thinks that there'll be
this reaceleration in the economy. Not
as clear to me that the rates market is
sold on that which is part of why we're
pricing in these these cuts in the rates
market. So maybe you need to kind of
reconcile those two markets with each
other. Um I do think that these Fed cuts
are getting increasingly priced in. I
think that is part of the story of what
is supposed to uh get the economy moving
a little bit faster. Again, you look at
the housing market, that's the most
interest rate sensitive sector of the
economy. And we have really weak housing
right now in terms of activity, in terms
of prices moving lower. You need to get
rates lower if you want to reacelerate
that portion of the economy. The
question though is the Fed cuts interest
rates. It's going to bring down policy
rates. It's going to bring bring down
the 2-year yield. How much lower will we
get in terms of the 10ear yield? has
been moving down together with the the
front end of the yield curve. Um, but I
think that's still an open question.
>> Andrew, how likely is it potentially
that they go 50 basis points, especially
given everything you've just outlined in
the last 5 minutes.
>> So, I think fundamentally you can look
at this data and you can say look back
at June payrolls, June payrolls
originally reported above 150,000. Now
it's negative, right? If we had had a
negative payroll sprint in June, I'm
pretty sure this is a Fed that would
have been cutting in July, right? We
would have seen rate cuts by now. Um
that said, there are big differences
across the committee. Remember back in
June, we had a lot of Fed officials who
didn't want to cut at all this year.
Powell has to pull that committee
together. So 25 basis points, I think,
is going to be a lot easier to build a
consensus around. We could see some
dissents for 50. I wouldn't be surprised
if we see some dissents, but 25 looks
much much more likely than 50.
>> What does a Fed under Lawrence Lindseay,
Kevin Walsh, or James Bullard look like
given the fact that those are the most
recent individuals to sit down with the
Treasury Secretary? Yeah, personnel
matters here, right? There's no question
that the the Fed chair matters. It is a
committee, right? So, we always think
about, you know, where are the votes
actually going to line up in terms of
where policy rates go. Um, you know, one
discussion we're talking about 3%. You
know, why does everyone talk about 3%.
That's kind of a notion of where maybe
the neutral policy rate is. Different
candidates for Fed chair are going to
have different views about where the
neutral rate is. And I'm pretty sure
when Treasury Secretary Besson is
interviewing these Fed officials, that's
one of the discussions that they're
having. So, you know, where do you see
neutral? How quickly do you think we
need to get to neutral? Um, that that
could depend on the Fed share.
>> Where do you see neutral?
>> I think neutral is still around 3% here.
So, when we talk about the Fed cutting
below 3%, that's really are they going
to actually go to stimulative levels. To
Lisa's point, if you have an inflation
problem, it gets pretty awkward to get
below neutral. Um, but if this inflation
problem is, you know, kind of quickly
disappearing, which I I think it may in
the next few months of data, um, all of
a sudden there there's less of a
constraint. And yeah, you should support
the labor market.
>> Got about 60 seconds left. They don't
forecast payrolls, they forecast
unemployment and they've got
unemployment year end at 4.5%, core PCE
at 3.1. Is there anything that's evolved
since the last meeting that's out of
whack with the June SCP?
>> The those forecast forecasts can
actually pretty much stay where they are
and I I think the way that Chair Powell
talked about this and he said this at
Jackson Hole, it's not where that point
estimate is. So you might still be at
4.5% on the unemployment rate. What's
the risk around that? You're running
29,000 payrolls. to the to the upside on
the
>> but if he starts talking about
riskmanagement rate cuts that's very
different to the kind of rate cycle
cutting cycle that some people are
thinking about in financial markets.
>> Yeah. The idea of a hawkish cut if he
starts just talking about maintenance
versus something that is more
stimulative. How many jobs does this
economy need to really be even and
frankly how much has that number gone
down as a result of fewer immigrants
coming into the country?
>> Can this Fed meet the market? something
Neil Data of Renmack poured some
freezing cold water on just yesterday.
Andrew, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. I appreciate it. Andrew
Honhorse there of City. Up next, Steve
or Federated, George Pollock of Signnum,
Sheila Kyolu of Jeff, and Sam Zeie of JP
Morgan Private Bank. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance just around the
corner.
[Music]
The animal spirits are back.
>> We think equities can continue to rally.
>> Stocks have been very conditioned to
like rate cuts. The market's going to
trade off the narrative that we have a
doubbish fed.
>> Any sort of a pullback makes a big case
for the markets to go up.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, this is Bloomberg
Surveillance and your second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 negative by just
a tenth of 1% following a 4day winning
streak on the S&P 500 on the NASDAQ 100
just about unchanged in the bond market.
The long end of the curve starting to
outperform the front end of the curve.
We've actually had what's called a bull
flatten up through September so far.
That's a change, a different
development. We'll get to that story
later in the program as we set you up
for next week and the last air trading
going into the weekend. You mention a
little bit later on this morning. Look
out for that at 10 a.m. Eastern time as
we work our way through next week. The
main event has got to be Chairman Powell
on Wednesday. Decision forecast news
conference.
>> Yeah. and the sort of drum roll reading
up leading up to that as to who is going
to be at that meeting on Tuesday that
leads into Wednesday considering the
Steven Myron hearing on Monday and this
bid to get Lisa Cook off the board of
governors before that Wednesday meeting.
A key question to me is how they message
as you were mentioning the tenor of the
rate cuts. Right now, markets are
pricing in 75 basis points of rate cuts
this year and at least two more next
year at a time when you still have
inflation well above 2% well above 3%.
How do they really message this at a
time of growing concern about the labor
market? To the personnel issue, it's
going to be a bit awkward having Steve
Myron, who still has one foot at CAA CA
working at the White House, joining the
FOMC next week most likely as long as he
gets that Senate vote alongside Governor
Lisa Cook, who the judge is saying she
can remain at the FOMC at this moment as
the Trump administration appeals because
they are saying that they have cause to
get her off. So, first off, the
personnel is going to be, I think you
would call it prime time. Second, when
>> box office,
>> pay-per-view,
>> pay-per-view, box office, get it
straight. Okay, sorry. The second thing
I would say is they're going to be
meeting at a time when you still have
trade negotiations ongoing and still
concerned for some what is going on with
tariff rates. We're still waiting on the
AIPA decision. And you have the Treasury
Secretary going to sit down with his
Chinese counterpart.
>> I'm pleased you keep building on Steven
Marin. First thing I'm going to look for
that dot on the dot plot. Steven Min
like somewhere down here. He wants to
anchor 26.
>> The hardest part is people say is there
going to be a descent for 50? Is there
going to be a descent for 200, right?
Basis points of cuts and we'll know who
that is.
>> Coming up on the program, Steve
Federated as Marcus continue a record
run. We'll catch up with George Pollock
of Signnum with the list of Fed chair
candidates continuing to expand and
Sheila Colu of Jeffre as airfares take
off. We begin this hour with stocks
hitting record highs as Wall Street
banks on the first Fed rate cut of the
year. Steve authorated seeing the glass
half full. He writes, "It will be no
surprise if they cut rates next week,
finally reviving the interest rate
sensitive areas of the economy still in
recession." Steve joins us now for more.
Steve, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Good to see you, my friend. Thanks for
being here with us. The challenge for
investors right now, and I think you and
the team have addressed it quite well.
The challenge is to carry on looking
forward as the Fed is looking backwards
and that tension begins to build as they
keep getting this data that says you're
late, get a move on. How are you going
to manage that in the months to come?
We're going to keep doing what we've
been doing, which is try to predict
where the Fed is heading based on where
we think the economy is heading as
opposed to compared to what they say
they're doing. So, we've got them, you
know, we've been of the view for some
time now, as you know, that the Fed is
going to cut because they can cut, not
because they need to cut. The
transmission mechanism for goods
inflation is the labor market. The labor
market has been softening and there's
ele key elements that are labor
intensive elements of the economy that
are in recession. Small caps have been
flat in earnings growth over the last
six quarters. There's been an earnings
recession in small companies. They
depend on interest rates. Housing is in
a recession. The auto sector is in tough
shape. These sectors of the economy are
the ones they're going to pick up when
the Fed starts cutting. And we've said
they can cut because they can cut. Now
with the labor market clearly softening
there are concerns about tariff
inflation you know one-off tariff
increases what which we see which we
have calculated to be about 13%
of the total pie not the 18 that people
talk about we can talk about why that
would be but um if you look at that and
assume half of it is going to picked up
by the exporters from foreign countries
it's about a 75 basis point hit spread
over maybe 12 months
So, we're seeing a little bit that now.
We'll probably see a little bit more,
but the core numbers are heading towards
their target of two and a half. They say
it's I mean, officially it's two, but we
think they shifted to two and a half a
long time ago. And so now with the
transmission mechanism obviously broken
and um you know, they're going to cut
and we we would guess a bullish cut. So,
we're think or a dovish cut. So, like a
25 basis point, but we're going to keep
this going. they can go to three. If you
look at if you have an inflation rate of
two and a half, you should be about 50
basis points above that to get to the
kind of the normal short-term rate. You
put 150 to 200 on top of uh the 2 and a
half for the 10-year, you know, the
yield curve, you get to around four,
we're there. And we think that's
another, you know, driver for stocks in
the next 12 months along with the
reaceleration that we're seeing. Let's
unpack some of those calls. So, we're
seeing a reaceleration in the equity
market. We're not seeing it in the
economy. This is the distinction to make
at the moment. You mentioned small caps
up for 6 weeks. Home builders have
absolutely ripped. This is what
Restoration Hardware is telling us this
morning. The third year of the worst
housing market I've seen in my 38 years
in the history. How backward-looking is
all of that? How confident are you and
the team that the worst of the data is
in the rearview mirror? Well, we're
looking at a number of reacelerants
starting in the back half of this year,
but particularly in 26. First of all,
all the uncertainty about tariffs go off
the table. So, there's a sort of a
psychological boost that's going to
happen. Secondly, you've got big capex
incentives in the bill that come into
place and there'll be a capital, we
think a sort of a capex flush both in
the software sector. Our software
analysts are seeing this coming in the
fourth quarter on the software side, but
more broadly across the economy as
decisions can now be made about the
future. That's what capex is. You've got
the tax incentives to produce that.
You've got the tax rebates coming in
effect. It's going to be basically a
check to every consumer because the tax
cuts were retroactive to 125, but the
IRS hasn't been able to fix their
system. So all those withholding taxes
on tips and all that thing that's all
going to get riffunded ear in the four
in the first quarter of 26 and then of
course you have the Fed rate cuts
helping those sectors of the economy
that are very rate sensitive. What
people don't know that today the US
economy is not as rate sensitive as it
was. It just isn't because the service
sector is much less rate sensitive but
the sectors that are rate sensitive
they're going to be another kicker for
the US economy in 26. The fact that
those areas have been in recession and
we still haven't gotten inflation below
3%. Rises questions about going forward
how much inflation could reacelerate if
those areas are tuber turbocharged at
the same time that everything else is
being turbocharged.
>> Right? So coming out of um coming out of
the the lockdown right the problem was
labor was in very short supply. You saw
it here in New York stores all over the
place. Help wanted. Get it. Help. Help
help. Do you see any help wanted signs?
right? The the labor markets have more
than stabilized. They've recovered and
now you're starting to see actually
excess labor and AI is adding to that.
So the the the worker doesn't have the
leverage to get pricing power on wages
that he or she had two years ago. That
transmission mechanism is over. So we're
much more comfortable about you know the
inflation outlook because that
transmission mechanism is is cracked.
So, do you reject that that sort of
voice that keeps coming in my head?
Watch the gold market. Watch the gold
market. It's telling you something. Are
you just sort of saying it's not telling
you anything? It's telling you that
there's central bank buying and it has
nothing to do with long-term inflation
expectations.
>> Well, Lisa, I I should put make you my
gold analyst. I mean, because I
>> I hear two different voices.
>> I spent 40 years in this business. I
can't figure out gold. There's just too
many. There's a a real market for gold.
You know, people use it for jewelry and
other real things or central banks
operating with very long-term
objectives. They're short-term players.
There's a lot going on and gold is what
someone's willing to pay for it. I like
to find things that can generate cash
flows that I can predict and then
discount back. I can't do that with
gold. So, I know you probably can make a
lot of money in gold, but
>> and other people have. It's just that we
don't play in it. We don't think we we
can do it.
>> It's become a geopolitical hedge though
for a lot of countries that don't want
to hold dollars anymore. So, doesn't
that mean like the only direction of
travel for gold really is going to be
up?
>> Uh, I don't know. I mean, a lot of the
gold, you ever been to the the vaults of
the New York Fed?
>> No, but I've heard about it. A
>> lot of gold down there.
>> Maybe you can take us field trip.
>> What happened to the tour for all these
central banks store their gold New York?
>> I think the administration thinks I'm a
conspiracy theorist cuz I keep asking.
>> You still want the tour? Yeah, I want
the tour.
>> You still want the tour? Steve, before
you go, I wanted to ask you about
valuations.
Typically, if we just had a period of
weaker than expected economic data and
had a guest come on the program and talk
to us about buying the recovery, most
people would be comfortable with that if
the forward multiple was closer to 16
than it is to 20. What kind of valuation
do we need to get used to given the
character of this equity market now?
>> We think 21 a half or so we're 21 to 22.
And the way we we came to this about a
year and a half ago, we said, well, wait
a second here. Everyone's heruristics on
what is a fair value for the market are
based on history. Typically with a you
know with a 3% two and a half to 3%
inflation rate you'd be at an 18
multiple on stocks. The problem is or
opportunity is that in in the stock
market today 40% of it are these giant
cash flow generators that are growing at
double digit rates and they're asset
light. those businesses are simply worth
more on a PE basis than a big industrial
company. So, we've been valuing the
market as two markets. So, 40% like 25
times earnings, not as high multiple
cash flow and then 18 on everything
else. And when you work that out, we
don't see this market as cheap here, but
you know, we see it as kind of at fair
value.
>> Yeah. When you benchmark this, you've
got to be careful about what you
benchmark this against. that market
history might not be as helpful as it
has been.
>> I love the idea of two different
markets. The idea of the Magnificent
Seven or the Magnificent Eight if you
want to stick Oracle in there or however
other many you want to put in there.
This idea that it is a paradigm shift
and they are leveraged to a paradigm
shift where they have cash flows up the
wazoo and they don't have that many
assets and it really is a very different
model.
>> Steve, do you want to find a word?
What's the price target now in the S&P?
>> Well, we haven't changed our yearend
price target at 6,500. I just don't like
making three-month forecasts on
equities. I think we're overdue for a
correction. So, we'll see. But I we've
been saying a correction be more of a
broadening out rotation kind of kind of
chopping around this level than a big
move forward. We've got 7500 for next
year. We set that about eight months ago
and that's kind of we're sticking with
that. We we think there's good upside
here. We don't think it's a screamer,
but there's certainly good upside. We're
still overweight stocks here and
particularly we're overweight the
broadening out trade. So, we like the
small caps, em merging markets, uh,
value stocks, regional banks look good
to us.
>> For as long as I've known you, you've
been bullish and right. It's good to see
you, sir. Appreciate it.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you, Steve Author of Federated
Hermes. If you're just joining us,
equities negative by only a tenth of 1%
on the S&P, coming off the back of a
4-day winning streak and closing at
all-time highs in Thursday's session.
With an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief, here's Yahihira
with more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Trump says he plans
to attend Charlie Kirk's funeral next
week in Arizona. He also says he plans
to posthumously honor him with the
Presidential Medal of Freedom. Kirk was
shot and killed while speaking on a
college campus in Utah. His casket was
flown to Phoenix yesterday aboard Air
Force 2 with JD Vance and his wife
accompanying Kirk's family. Meanwhile,
New York City Mayor Eric Adams is
telling business and civic leaders he's
conducting his own polling to decide the
future of his reelection campaign. Polls
currently show Zoran Mandani holding a
sizable lead and former Governor Andrew
Como with a more viable path to beat
Mamani. Campaign officials said Adams
has quote never alluded to leaving the
race. And Tesla's robo taxis may be
coming to Nevada. Elon Musk's company
has been approved to Tesla's autonomous
vehicles in the state after launching in
Texas in June. The service does include
a Tesla employee sitting in the front
passenger seat. Tesla also has a
non-aututonomous ride hailing service in
the San Francisco Bay area. That's
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, the race to replace
Fetch JPEL.
>> We are getting the process underway.
Obviously, it's going to be President
Trump's decision and we're we're not in
a rush. There's a long long list and
like I said there there's there's some
great candidates and the list might be
getting longer. George Pollock of
Signnum joins us next live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Steve Or the Federated with us just
moments ago looking for 7500 on the S&P
500 year end next year. Very
constructive on this equity market.
Equity futures at the moment pulling
back just a tenth of 1%. Jonathan Golib
now over at Seapport Research looking
for 6,700 year end this year saying the
economic backdrop is constructive,
credit rates and policy are supportive.
>> You know, a lot of people coalesing
around this idea that equity markets can
keep going up on the dynamism of tech
and what AI might do. The bigger
question to me is not the stock market.
Frankly, it's the bond market because
this is predicated on the idea of a Fed
that's easing in the short term at a
time where we're heading into a
reaceleration. This is going to
ostensibly come without inflation. A
very big question mark around the long
end of the yield curve.
>> Big rally at the long end more recently
and we'll be talking about that in about
10 minutes time. So look out for that
conversation. 10-year bond yields this
morning up by around about a basis
point. Under surveance this morning, the
race to replace Fed chair J Pal.
>> I'm not really sure what the Federal
Reserve is looking at because uh thus
far we've seen very little if any uh
price pressures from the tariffs. We are
getting the process underway. Obviously,
it's going to be President Trump's
decision and we're we're not in a rush.
There's a long long list and like I
said, there there's there's some great
candidates.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
US Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
looking to expand the list of candidates
to replace Fed Chair Jay Powell.
According to reports, Besson recently
met with former Fed officials Larry
Lindseay, Jim Bulard, and Kevin Walsh.
>> This is the start of a process. We know
that there's 10 11 names circulating
when it comes to the Fed chair himself
or herself and these are the first three
of these long interviews. What I would
say is that the President Trump doesn't
love process as much as I think as a
secretary Bessant. But I don't get the
urgency anymore from this administration
and that is because the data is moving
to seeing a Fed rate cut next week. So
they have, I think, a little bit of
breathing room to take their time and go
about this method in a methodological
approach to actually have a process. I
think one thing that potentially is
going to come up in these interviews is
how the new Fed chair could shape the
Federal Reserve based on really a
scathing essay in the Wall Street
Journal where Bessant basically compared
what the Fed did to the COVID pandemic
and a terrible virus that took control
of the economy. There seems to be a big
difference in the way that Wall Street
and the Treasury is talking about
inflation and the way that some people
might be experiencing right now. I think
Paul Donovan over at UBS has done a
fantastic job of really explaining this.
On Wall Street, we take a massive basket
of goods and services and spit out a
number and say what it might mean or
might not mean for the Federal Reserve.
At home, there's a thing called
frequency bias. It's what do you come
across every single day? What goods or
services do you use? And a fantastic
example of that is say coffee. Everyone
wakes up, most people, reaches for a cup
of coffee, and they realize the price of
that has been going up aggressively, up
20% over the last year. And that is
going to set their view on what's
happening with inflation. And they're
going to have a very different
perspective, real life perspective of
what is happening in their life compared
to what we're talking about around this
table,
>> which is the reason why I think a lot of
people are looking at consumer
sentiment. We'll get another read today
to understand exactly how that's
filtering into the decision-m. I
personally don't buy blackberries when
they're above $7. I think that that's
outrageous and I just put them back and
fruits and vegetables just went up
significantly in the latest CPI report.
But you aren't seeing a lot of the sales
fall off the cliff except at Restoration
Hardware. So there's this question going
forward of what is going to be the
trigger point to bring down prices right
if consumers are not going to push back
and that's one of the questions that's
really been underpinning this.
>> To talk about some of these issues,
George Pollock of Signnum joins us now
for more. George, welcome to the
program. Let's start with the Federal
Reserve and work our way through things
from there. So the Federal Reserve
audition continues. The interviews will
continue to build over the next several
months. George, what is less clear are
the kind of characteristics that this
administration are looking for, both the
Treasury Secretary and the president.
What do you think they want from an
incoming Fed chair?
>> So with the incoming Fed chair, I think
they want two things. I think they want
a strong resume to show to the market to
say we're taking this seriously. We're
not appointing someone who the market
won't follow, who the market won't
respect. But at the same time, they're
looking for someone who will embrace
monetary policies that are more in favor
of the president's policies and more in
line, while maybe not explicitly being
so, at least showing some kind of
independence of thinking and
independence of thought.
>> Well, wasn't that the number one
question when Trump Donald Trump when he
was the 45th president ended up asking
Jay Powell to decide whether or not he
should get the chairmanship job?
>> Yeah, absolutely. That's a very fair
point. But I think the difference is
that was the first Trump administration
where he still had people around him who
were trying to curtail his instincts and
trying to push him to do certain
decisions that they favored. With this
administration with Susie Wilds as chief
of staff, what we're seeing is they're
basically following the president's lead
and making sure they're embracing his
ideas and embracing what he wants. Given
the fact that the Fed is already going
to be cutting interest rates when they
decide to pick a new Fed chair, how
important is this person going to be in
terms of rethinking the Fed and how they
operate?
>> I think even with the Fed cutting rates,
as you guys were discussing, it will
still be important for the
administration to have their imprint on
the Fed itself through the Fed chair. As
we saw with the nomination of the likes
of Myron for the Cougler's remaining
term, they want people who are
disruptors. They want the people who
have thought about Fed independence, who
have thought about the structure of Fed
and really do intend to see some reform
executed.
>> George, are we being played? I kept
wondering that when we saw more names
come out, and I felt like they're just
going to name Chris Waller, and we're
just sort of getting other names thrown
at us like FOD or Fishbait uh for us to
talk about to just sort of keep the
pressure up on the Federal Reserve. Is
that your takeaway?
>> I think my takeaway is to an extent
we're getting played. I think they're
seriously interviewing these people
because they want to hear their
thoughts. They want to see their views.
But in the end, I think we're going to
end up with someone like Christopher
Waller or maybe one of the two Kevins.
>> What do you think is going to be sort of
they love that we we had a long
discussion about whether they like being
called the Kevin or not? I I wonder if
you do think though that whoever is
going to be the next chair, and this is
something that's making its way into
markets a bit more, is going to be
creative about the way they use their
balance sheet. maybe not expand it, but
be willing to work with Treasury,
whether it's Operation Twist, whether
it's whatever creative uh instrument you
can imagine, to keep longerterm yields
lower. Do you think that that is
actually increasingly part of these
discussions?
>> I don't think they would ever say that
openly because I think that would
disturb the market, but I think the
understanding is the Fed chair they
pick, they're not going to make, as they
view it, the same mistake they made with
Jerome Powell. They're going to choose
someone who they feel will be with them.
Maybe not openly, maybe not campaigning
with them, but at the very least backing
their ideas and backing their policies.
>> George, I wanted to go further with
something that we were talking about
around the table just moments ago, and
that's how maybe consumers are viewing
the economy at the moment and how Wall
Street, the Treasury, and the
administration is talking about it.
George, the Biden administration rightly
took a lot of criticism for gaslighting
the public around the conditions in this
economy, talking about how great Biden
was at a time when a lot of people were
struggling to get by. George, is there a
risk that we repeat that? Talking about
an economy that's doing well when the
labor market data says it's not talking
about prices coming around at inflation
being well behaved at a time when a lot
of people are experiencing higher food
prices, high net gas prices. George,
they run that risk down in Washington
DC.
I absolutely think they're running that
risk. I absolutely think they're
following in the Biden administration's
trend, be it for better or for worse.
And the the story about the black not
buying blackberries once they go above
$7. The interesting thing is though,
there was a recent poll this week that
laid out 55% of Americans as of today
are not letting tariffs decide their
purchasing decisions. So that means
while there is still around 37% who say
it does, a majority of Americans are
still not feeling the effect of the
tariffs or maybe not allowing the
tariffs to affect their purchasing
decisions. That's good news at least so
far. George, we appreciate your take.
Thank you, sir. Joe Pock there of
Signnum Global on what's happening in
this economy and the Fed race. So his
point there was really interesting and
you have a great question here about at
what point will people push back against
some of the characterizations of the
labor market and of the inflation
backdrop and say that's not my
experience. How much are people
conditioned to have a little bit more
inflation and how much is this what
companies are able to exploit by raising
prices passing it along? Remember right
after the pandemic we were coming off a
period of no inflation for decades. So
it was a very different kind of paradigm
that people were getting used to. I'm
not sure you Mitch is going to help
later, which as we know has become a
political poll and not an economic
survey. The spread between Republicans
and Democrats and the way they view this
economy at the moment seems to be
incredibly wide.
>> I'm looking at the totality of surveys
to really get a sense of it. I think
that's Thank you. I think would be proud
and speak.
>> Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Sheila Ku of Jeff as airfares take
off. Brammo's going to tell you her
price for what she won't pay for a trip
from
>> Jeez, I'm to the west coast. Stingy.
>> What's the line of sand? Seven bucks for
blackberries.
>> Well, I
>> My line would be more like five.
>> Yeah. Well, I don't Yeah, I know. But if
you get the really big one, but you have
to like see. And sometimes they jack up
the prices.
>> The jumbo pack.
>> Yeah. Well, different.
>> But when they're actually like bigger
and they look really good, sometimes you
have to go for it.
>> Are they not the organic ones?
>> Look at that. That's
>> They're the ones that have like been
juiced.
>> I cut it out.
>> Stop having criticisms.
Equities
doing okay. We're down about a tenth of
1% on the S&P 500, but arriving into
Friday at all-time highs on the S&P, on
the NASDAQ, looking for a sixth
consecutive week of gains for small
caps. That rally hasn't stopped since
that weak July payrolls reported in
early August. And we've seen some big
moves in the bond market since then,
too. Particularly at the front end of
the curve. Two's around 350, 355 this
morning. 10's around 4.03%.
The long end has outperformed the front
end over the last week or so. This is
important. Check out twos and tens. Just
want to sit on this chart and just speak
to you about what's been happening here
over the last month. Two's 10 since the
start of August, the end of July has
gone from the 40s to the 60s. That was a
steeper curve led by the front end.
That's called a bull steepener. What's
happened since then, since we've arrived
in September, is we've gone from the 60s
back to the 40s. And it's been driven by
what's called a bull flattener driven by
the long end. This is really really
interesting at a time when a lot of
people came into the post labor day
period position for a steeper yield
curve and more of the same. PIMCO's Dan
Iverson one of the very best at it in
fixed income backing away from the
steepener speaking to Bloomberg saying
it's performed so well that our
conviction level has come down and maybe
he's not the only one now. Well, this
raises the question, is this flattening,
the sort of bull flattening that you're
talking about, is that signal or is that
noise? Is this people stopping out
positions that already performed very
well or is this a signal that as the Fed
cuts rates, there isn't going to be this
concern about runaway inflation and
there still will be demand for the long
end of the yield curve. I would say the
jury is still out because you have other
people like Dan Iverson who are saying
the same thing. Essentially, longer
term, they see a steepening, but right
now short term they see this flattening.
This to me is one of the most
complicated trades I could possibly
imagine and it really will be important
especially given Scott Besson's school
of getting temper uh 10-year yields down
to 3%.
>> This is one of the biggest consensus
trades in the market right now and the
market is pushing back against it at
least so far in September. Early days I
know the yields are backing away from
the highs we were talking about 2 weeks
ago. 5% on 30s more like 465 this
morning. Tens at about 4.04%. 2 hours
away from the cash open. Let's focus on
equities now to get your morning movers.
Here's Danny. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. It's been a really big week
for AI infrastructure stocks after
Oracle earlier this week. But now it is
the turn of super micro computer getting
a big boost up more than 5 and a half%.
It says that it has started rolling out
its servers that include the most
advanced Nvidia Blackwell Ultra chips.
It's ones that help with more complex
computing processes. For these types of
companies, it's really a race to see who
can deliver with Nvidia chips the
fastest and super micro seemingly ahead
of the curve. Elsewhere, we also had an
analyst upgrade by Barclays to GM taking
it from equal weight to overweight.
Those shares rallying off the back of
that. Barkclay's analyst saying that
things like more soft regulation when it
comes to EVs and just generally pricing
power still for autos helping a company
like GM. They also say its valuations
look attractive and buybacks look good,
hence the upgrade for them. Now, as far
as earnings, we also heard from Adobe
after the bell yesterday. Again, another
AI story. It seems like all of their AI
innovation is paying off. Morgan Stanley
analyst noting that going into the
earnings, there was a real question to
whether they'd get that return on
investment. They gave a pretty punchy
outlook, surpassing estimates. So, those
shares up 3% because everybody wants to
photoshop themselves with AI. John
>> Danny, thank you. bit loose and fast
with everybody. Don't want anything to
do with that. The photoshopping with AI.
>> Yeah. I want
>> people changing their pictures. You've
seen people are doing that with their
LinkedIn photos.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> That you take your own photo then you
push it through
>> or dating apps. Yeah. That's always
>> Imagine then turning up for the date.
Well, there you go. Sitting across from
you. It's not the person you thought it
was.
>> How do people handle that? They get up
and walk away.
>> I think they walk away.
>> You think so?
>> Honestly, speaking with experience that
was pretty fast.
>> That was You want to say anything else
on that? to AMA filter. Let's move on.
On our radar this morning, the FBI
releasing new video of the suspect in
the assassination of Charlie Kirk.
Surveillance footage showing a person
jumping off a building and fleeing the
scene just after the shooting. Any
developments here, of course, we'll
continue to bring you them. Elsewhere,
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
discussing trade and Tik Tok with the
Chinese Vice Premier in Madrid next
week. The meeting laying the groundwork
for a potential summit between the
President Donald Trump and Xi Jinping.
This is going to be a big one because
this is the third of a series of
meetings between US officials and their
Chinese counterparts. Pete Hegsth, Marco
Rubio both spoke to their counterparts
this week and then final you send in
Scotty B maybe sealing the deal for this
leadertoleer meeting can happen
potentially on the sidelines of the Apac
summit. What I struggle to understand is
when the United States sits down with
China, what's going to be their number
one ask? They are dealing with fentinel.
They need China's signoff, the Communist
Party signoff on a sale of Tik Tok. They
are dealing with China dumping on other
markets. They want China to purchase US
agricultural goods, the phase one trade
deal, which they have not lived up to.
So, this is going to be very delicate
when it comes to Xi Jinping and Donald
Trump sitting down.
>> Super delicate. And also, in the mix of
all of this, I think the Mexico story is
fascinating. We're going into next year.
Mexico and Canada want to come to some
kind of agreement with the US on USMCA
and the future of a trade relationship.
What Mexico knows it's got to do is put
up the walls to Chinese imports to make
sure they can smooth the runway, foam
the runway to make sure that things are
going to be okay next year. China is
basically trying to bully Mexico at the
same time these two are getting together
in Madrid. I think that's one of the
most interesting stories in global trade
right now. How does the US come to some
agreement with China or even the
parameters for it at the same time that
the US is encouraging Mexico to put up
the walls and China is going after
Mexico and saying the US is a bully and
we don't ascribe to such bullying
tactics and we want free trade. There's
a real question here about how all of
these other stories add to the complex
complexity. the issue with Russia, how
do you get China to agree to uh pressure
Russia to end the war without putting
secondary sanctions on without further
inflaming some of the concerns? So the
geopolitics of this I think are
fascinating and what messaging the US
sends. The United States is basically
going to tell these countries like
Mexico, like Spain, the Europeans, you
have to choose and you better be
choosing with us. They're also going to
remind them that if you decide to go
down this road of choosing China, you're
going to destroy your high-end
manufacturing base and you're going to
be basically crying for the next few
years because it would be cheap now, but
you're going to have to pay for it
later.
>> It's going to consume your manufacturing
base and we're seeing that take place
potentially in Germany and the auto
industry across the continent. Wanted to
squeeze this story in looking ahead to
next week. Nvidia Open AAI planning to
invest billions in UK data centers. The
CEOs set to make that announcement when
they travel to the country next week.
Their trip coinciding with President
Trump's visit to the UK. You'll be
there.
>> This will be an interesting one, of
course, because we have seen the
president do this in his prior trips to
the Middle East. He brought likes of
Jensen Wang along and they were inking
deals. What I find really interesting
about this is I am missing some other
names. Where is Mark Zuckerberg? Where
is Tim Cook? Are these individuals going
to go with him? And what has been proven
is if you go on some of these trips like
Jensen Wang, you get a lot more say on
what is going on in the Oval Office and
policy than when it relates to your
industry.
>> Important question. You've screened the
prices of flights. How expensive was the
transatlantic trip this time? Is it
going up?
>> It was expensive.
>> Was it?
>> It was very expensive.
>> Do you think that was just for next week
or do you get a sense as that's
everything's just had a little bit of a
lift?
>> I think everything has had a little bit
of a lift based off the rants I hear
every morning from Lisa. I'm asking for
Bremo.
>> Well, I could just say we could see it
from August CPI 5.8% increase, which was
uh definitely interesting. But to me, I
take a look at the peak times vacation
and when it crosses a certain line, my
god, I sound horrible. I just She has a
lot of lines in the sand.
>> No one gets a vacation once you go over
a certain number.
>> We get a different kind of vacation.
That's all. I just tell the kids, you
know, ratchet it back.
>> Lisa said it a move of 6% almost 6% in
airfares in August CPI from the month
before. Sheila Ku of Jeff is following
this too. Sheila, good morning. It's
good to see you.
>> Good morning. Thank you.
>> Is this a real deal? Do you think this
is the kind of thing that can stick
around?
>> Every point of price is about 10% of
earnings for airlines. So, it is a big
deal. But we've seen airline prices
essentially be deflationary over the
last four or five years. So, this is
finally a sub momentum. And what's
resulting is that is capacity is coming
in. We're seeing capacity down one to
two points and that's helping price just
move up into positive territory. How
much is this price increase an average
that isn't representative of all of the
potential offerings? I saw yesterday
Delta put out an AK and it sort of
highlighted how Delta gets more than 50%
of its revenue from seats outside of the
main cabin. In other words, premium
offerings and it just highlights that
people who are feeling the wealth effect
and are wealthier are fueling some of
these price increases maybe than the
back of the cabin.
>> Yes, it's definitely for folks that buy
Blackberries over $7. This is what's
fueling the demand for Delta premium
one. But Delta's 8K really just raised
the midpoint of the guidance one to two
points. So two to four% revenue growth
in Q3. So we're not talking big numbers
here that's moving these stock prices
really. So it is 50% premium.
Corporate's just coming back, but Delta
still talked about weakness in Atlantic
main cabin pressure as well. So it's not
all parts of the market. United refuted
that and said everything is great in all
places of United. So they were more
bullish. Well, how much are some of
these airlines reducing capacity in
order to keep prices high? And I'm
saying this because simply their
overhead costs, especially with
personnel, have gone up. They want to
maintain some of that personnel so they
don't have the same situation as during
the pandemic. And you end up with higher
prices no matter what.
>> We're looking at capacity uh for
airlines down about 1% over the last
month. TSA volumes are up one. So, it's
only a two-point spread that we're
seeing. So, capacity coming in 1% is
really helping that price. Some of it is
lowcost carriers going out of business
that's driving and fueling this demand.
But and then in terms of costs, a lot of
the labor agreements are in Delta called
out higher costs related to weather in
Q3. So it was uh more just seasonal
rather than a long-term issue for cost.
>> You mentioned lowcost carriers. What's
going on with United and Spirit? The
Spirit Airlines CEO saying United CEO
can't stop quote yapping about us. Scott
Kirby tends to be an outspoken person
for the airline industry and you know
he's done well in terms of raising
visibility for airlines saying there's
brand loyalty associated with airlines
and I do think that's true whether it's
the mileage plus program or Delta 1 once
you fly that you tend to go on it and
you look less for the what the airfare
price looks like. So I do think that
Delta and United are bringing brand
loyalty back and trying to say we don't
need to trade at five times earnings or
a 70% discount to the market. we could
have sustainable earnings.
>> Is Scott Kirby though right about
Spirit? Are they going to go out of
business?
>> Lowcost carriers in the US, there's just
too much capacity going into the same
markets. And then that's where you see
promotional airfares from Southwest
Airlines and the like and so you don't
really want to fly the the routes. The
most lucrative routes that where you're
making 20% margins are those
transatlantic flights.
>> I noticed you haven't really mentioned
American. You've talked about United,
talked about Delta. Is American still
got a problem?
>> That's where my uh that's where my
loyalty lies. Delta and United in terms
of my personal flying. Um but in terms
of American, I do think they're the
third sort of network carrier in the US.
They have a subpar product domestically
and internationally. Um and they're
trying to improve that by improving
their wide body.
>> What makes it subpar for you? What is it
that they're doing that is subpar
compared to say the Deltas of this
world?
>> Uh you know I think Delta 1 has invested
so much. They have three main hubs with
the Delta 1 lounges in the US. Something
like 3.4 billion of investment at JFK
alone. So the return on that is to gain
a little bit of market share. And
they've done that successfully cuz folks
like me who flew American in 2019 are
now flying Delta because they've
invested so much in the infrastructure
and the cabin and on time delivery on
time uh arrivals. Same thing with
United. So you could see the investments
really helping brand loyalty.
>> Sheila, appreciate it. Appreciate the
honesty, too. Subpar American Airlines
Shidikolu there of Jeffrey's I don't
know if they're listening this morning
but
>> I will get a call if they are
>> that's the conclusion of a lot of people
>> that hit hard for you I know it's sort
of what
>> here's the problem and Amarie
understands this
>> we're one world
>> if you're coming from London you
probably been flying BA which means
you're one world which means ultimately
you just sort of drift over to American
almost accidentally
>> yes and also I used to fly in the Middle
East a lot cutter is also one world
which is not subpar and I recently flown
American I have to say I thought it was
a good experience and they've updated
the lounges is It seemed pretty simless.
>> You're happy with that? All right, we're
balanced here at Bloomberg Surveillance.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara. Hey, Yahihara.
>> Hi, John. Former Brazilian President Jed
Bolsaro has been sentenced to over 27
years in prison. He was convicted on
charges he sought to cling to power by
plotting a military coup that included
plans to assassinate President Luis
Inasio Lula Dilva. His lawyers are
expected to appeal his sentence. The US
has warned it will act accordingly to
what it called a witch hunt. Meanwhile,
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant is
adding additional names to the list of
candidates to replace Fed Chair Jay
Powell. In recent days, Bessant
reportedly met with former Fed officials
Lawrence Lindseay, Kevin Walsh, and Jim
Bullard. Powell's term expires in May
2026, and while he could stay on for two
more years as governor, Trump is anxious
to replace him as chair. And shares of
Warner Brothers Discovery are surging
nearly 5 and a half% in the pre-market
following reports that Paramount Skyance
is preparing a bid for the company.
Sources say Warner Brothers CEO David
Sazoff believes he can get a hefty
premium for his streaming and studios
businesses once they're separated from
the cable business. The Paramount offer
is being backed by the Ellison family.
That's your Bloomberg Rehara. Thank you.
Appreciate it. Up next on the program, a
new rally in the bond market.
I think the long end of the curve has
actually done most of its rallying. What
we think you'll see instead is short
bonds will rally. We think equities can
continue to rally. Um but but that long
end I think probably has a little less
opportunity.
>> That conversation up next with Sam Ze of
JP Morgan Private Bank live from New
York. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Equity futures this morning negative by
a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500 just about
unchanged on the NASDAQ 100 coming into
Friday at record highs. Under surveance
this morning, a new rally in the bond
market. What is most likely to happen
is, you know, kind of 2-year yields are
likely to come down to where the federal
funds rate is headed. We think that's
3%. 10-year yield at, you know,
essentially 4%. We think that's about
where it belongs. We think the long end
of the curve has actually done most of
its rallying. What we think you'll see
instead is short bonds will rally. We
think equities can continue to rally. Um
but but that long end I think probably
has a little less opportunity.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Treasury yields nearing lows of the year
as traders price in further Fed interest
rate cut cards. Sam Ze of JP Morgan
private bank saying the following. Fed
rate cuts can stimulate the economy even
if long-term Treasury yields don't
decline. Sam joins us now for more. Sam,
good morning.
>> Thanks. Good morning.
>> Good to see you. Let's throw some of
that into foreign exchange. Can you help
us understand what kind of market regime
we're in right now? Whether it's
relative rates, whether it's yield
differentials, growth differentials,
what's driving things at the moment?
>> Yeah, it's definitely compared to early
this year around liberation day or Q2.
There was always the kind of yield
differential story and it had totally
fallen away and everything had become
about flows, American exceptionalism,
the sell America story. And really since
then, over the summer and into right
now, that story has completely faded
away. We don't see it in the data. We're
not seeing signs of repatriation or big
asset allocation flows. And it's really
been the correlation between yield
differentials and the dollar that has
reasserted itself. So when we think
about our expectation that the dollar
can sell off a little bit more 3 to 5%
into next year, it really comes down to
the yield story and the relative growth
in rate story.
>> So when you put this together, do you
buy the yield flattener, the yield curve
flattener that we've seen? Do you think
that that's a lasting trade
>> in the long end? No. This is probably
more of a counter trend rally in our
view. We really just think you get the
diversification benefits and the yield
that you need from the treasury yield
curve in the intermediate part of the
curve. We don't see tons of reasons to
go out into ultra long duration
particularly when it comes to treasuries
or really globally in sovereign bond
markets given fiscal concerns given
debate around political volatility and
really I think you can see it we were
talking about this before you can see it
in gold tens 30s steepening year to date
gold continues to rally so we get a lot
of push back on our dollar view saying
oh the dollar is stubborn it's not
selling off euro dollar is stuck here
and that's right but not against gold
not against precious metals the dollar
is continuing to devalue there and
that's actually at least at the private
bank where we've been really expressing
our bearish dollar view has really been
in the precious space and in gold.
>> So when you take a step back you said
that cutting rates at the front end can
still stimulate the economy even if you
end up with higher long-term rates. Can
you talk about exactly how given the
fact that the transmission mechanism a
lot of people are saying has been if not
broken really muted.
>> Yeah. I think people think about oh Fed
rate cuts, long income comes down,
mortgage rates come down, refinancing
rates come down, but I think it's really
important to think about not only how we
think about it, but the Fed is in terms
of broad financial conditions. As long
as if the fact that the Fed is getting
more dovish or bringing the front end
down results in tighter credit spreads,
higher equity prices, maybe a weaker
dollar, uh improved sentiment, then
financial conditions ease and that's
what transmits into the real economy.
And actually, if you look at the Fed's
own FCI models, just given the easing of
financial conditions we've gotten over
recent months, Fed hasn't even cut yet,
it's going to boost growth all else
equal 30, 40, 50 basis points over the
next 12 months.
>> They're expected to cut next week. So,
help us understand what you're expecting
next week. Is that going to be a one-off
adjustment or the start of something
bigger?
>> Yeah, we think it's the start of a full
return to neutral. We really don't think
given the loosening in the labor market
or certainly lack of retightening in the
labor market that you need rates in
restrictive territory anymore. So we
think it's the start of the process to
bring rates back down to around three
and a quarter. So we have penciled in
about 100 basis points of cuts over the
next 12 months. We can debate how fast
we get there, but this is the first step
and the factor going back to neutral is
really what underpins our investment.
>> Let's talk about speed. How do you think
about speed at the moment when we could
have a different Fed share arriving in
May with a very different view of what
to do?
>> Absolutely. I think they want to get the
process started. You know, um the Fed
itself has given some speeches that say
kind of get on with it. And so I think
they want to get the process started.
Look, the market at least, again, I go
back to the idea that we focus on
financial conditions, broad financial
conditions as long as the Fed delivers
on the roughly 100 basis points of cuts
that are priced at some point over the
next 6 to 12 months. That shouldn't
tighten financial conditions and
threaten the outlook. Maybe it's, you
know, downplaying their actual actions,
but it's kind of it's already priced.
It's already transmitting through
financial conditions. So, as long as you
kind of deliver on it, you're going to
get the stimulus that it involves.
>> Does it make you want to buy US debt
more with a backs stop potentially of a
Fed that is going to try to be
supportive in whatever way that it can
both on the short end and the long end
depending on who comes into the office?
>> Yeah, I think the key is we are going to
have a Fed cutting cycle. let's call it
other underpinning, you know, belief
that we have is that the economy is not
going to slide into recession. And when
you have Fed cutting cycles that don't
accompany recessions, your kind of
playbook for asset prices is very
different than if the Fed's cutting into
recession. So going to bonds in
particular, front end performs, gives
you yield, gives you diversification.
The long end, if you look across cutting
cycles that don't result in a recession,
long end stays flat, maybe even moves
higher over time. So we're really like
being in the belly of the curve and in.
And then when we're trying to find
yields in the private bank to make up
for the fact that cash rates are on
their way down, we've really been
looking more into ultra highquality, you
know, investment grade credit, taking a
little bit of credit risk in the high
quality companies because treasuries are
already really pricing in a big easy.
>> Why aren't you going into Europe given
the fact that they just forecast
inflation coming in below that 2% level
and still see growth, albeit tepid?
Yeah, it's not that we're against going
into Europe, but on an FX hedge basis,
it doesn't really give me much relative
to the US. And I think what we heard
from, you know, uh, the ECB yesterday is
that they're done cutting, right? We
maybe have, we're kind of 50/50 in our
own debate about whether they deliver
one more cut or not. The real difference
in global sovereign bond markets is that
most foreign central banks are done with
their cutting cycles and now the Fed is
catching up. And that's the theme that
we're going to be trading.
>> The ECB forecasts are amazing for me. I
keep going back to these growth
forecasts. GDP for this year 1.2% for
next year around 1% for 2027 around 1%.
We talked about this yesterday. What
happened to all the hope and enthusiasm
about the European growth story? The ECB
just turned around and told you
yesterday they're expecting growth
around 1% for the next two plus years.
>> They turned around and they said be
happy it's not a recession essentially,
right? I mean, this is sort of how low
the bar was. But you're right, where is
that dynamism? And that's one reason why
as much as people were saying sell
America, go into Europe, we really
haven't seen it sustained. Yes, in
certain pockets of the equity market,
but you've seen those flows reverse in
certain pockets over the past couple of
months.
>> Besides the defense sector, where are
you going to be investing in Europe and
what we've seen, especially in autos, is
China just absolutely destroying the
sector across the continent. It was
interesting that they believe the
disinflationary story might be over on
the continent when we still haven't
really concluded what's going to happen
with trade for next year and beyond.
>> Well, that's why Christine Lagard said
that the risks around view are high. But
it is notable that right now we are
heading into a weekend of meetings
between the US and the Chinese
counterparts in Madrid about exactly
what the trade landscape looks like.
That is a huge risk and how do they deal
with this inflation? How high is the bar
for them to act in a more stimulative
manner given the fact that they do have
a singular mandate? But it seems like
mission accomplished based on their own
forecast.
>> Sam, it's good to see you. Appreciate
your time. Sam Za of JP Morgan Private
Bank with a big call in the FX market.
Dollar weakness. If you want to see it,
see lots of it. Look for precious metals
and what's been happening this year.
>> To me, this has been stunning. The fact
that we had on an inflation adjusted
basis, record high prices, more than
3,600 per ounce on gold. the precious
metal has just been ripping higher and
this really is the where you can see
some of this question around the dollar
and where its role is in the global
economy and this is where you can see
buying by central banks particularly in
China that tends to be under
reportported time and time again. So
again if you want to buy a ring good
luck
>> gold up again this morning by 0.4%. The
good news is diamond prices are like
>> y rock bottom.
>> All right
>> there you go. You know just you know
just trying to bring a smile to people's
faces and you're doing a great job
>> trying. Coming up, Tracy McMillan of
Wells Fargo, Gil Laura of DA Davidson,
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research, and
Christian Mani of Lafayette College. The
third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up
next.
[Music]
>> We've been concerned about inflation for
a while.
>> We're getting what we expected on
inflation. You are seeing more evidence
of a softening in labor market
conditions.
>> The economy is gradually grinding to a
halt here.
>> The economy is set to reacelerate.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> 4-day winning streak on the S&P 500. Six
on the NASDAQ 100. We're looking at
alltime highs arriving into Friday from
New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning to you all. The
third hour of Bloomberg Savannah starts
right now and your scores look like
this. Equity futures negative by not
even a tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ 100 up
by around about a tenth of 1% in the
bond market. Decent rally at the long
end of the curve so far this week taking
bond yields down to around 4% yields a
little bit higher this morning by two or
three basis points. One more data point
left before we get into the weekend. The
big one. Drum roll.
You Mitch, you know how much we love
you, Mitch. It's not even an economic
survey. has become a political poll
about how Republicans and Democrats feel
about the economy.
>> Well, look, we're going to be looking at
it because it is something that comes
out and it's one piece of the pie. It
sort of has been less and less of an
indicator. I think a lot of people are
with you. That said, one thing that's
been notable is that consumer sentiment
has held in better than you would have
expected given that inflation is still
as high as it is. And I think that
that's the tension that you're talking
about, which is if people say that
inflation is low enough to start cutting
rates, is that sentiment reflected in
the population, especially at a time of
slow labor market growth. And that I
think is a really good question that
we're looking for tea leaves to try to
understand. We can all sit around this
table and look at this poll, what it is,
not a survey. It really is a poll and
has a lot of political bias in it and
say, who's really going to be paying
attention to that? But the Fed actually
paid attention to the University of
Michigan last time around. The Fed's not
paying attention to inflation this time
around. I guess that's the big change.
Chairman Pal set us up for a very
different meeting next week when he
addressed Jackson Hole and you were
there. That line in that speech that
we've repeated repeatedly on this
program that he expects inflation
potentially to be a one-off but not all
at once phenomena. That basically means
this Federal Reserve is ready to look
through hot inflation prints into year
end and maybe beyond. Fact that this
market is pricing at 75 basis points of
rate cuts even when we haven't seen
inflation at that 2% target for more
than four years tells you a lot. And I
think that a lot of people are saying
they're willing to look through any
short-term inflation pop. My question is
are they willing to look through a
six-month or 8-month inflationary kind
of wave? And it really goes to the core
of why is the long bond rallying? Is it
because people truly believe that
inflation is going to come in? Is it
just a trade that is getting stopped out
because it was so consensus and we're
trying to put put a narrative around it
or is this something else about how the
Fed is going to adjust its policies and
its balance sheet to uh to have a little
bit more influence over the long end as
well as the short end?
>> That meeting coming up next Wednesday.
Equity futures at the moment pretty much
unmoved on the S&P 500. Coming up on
this program, we'll catch up with Trace
McMillan of Wells Fargo as stocks trade
near all-time highs. Gil Laura of DAD
Davidson shaking up his outlook for big
tech and Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research
on rising rate cut bets. We begin this
hour with stock steady ahead of next
week's Fed meeting. Tracy McMillan of
Wells Fargo writing Fed chair JPAL is
more focused on employment data than
inflation data for now and the bond
market knows it. Tracy joins us now for
more. Tracy, good morning. Can we talk
about the rally not just at the front
end but the rally further out along the
curve at the long end? That long end
starting to outperform. what do you
think's behind that?
>> Good morning. Yeah, so we think that
it's outperforming because there are a
number of of rate cuts um priced into
the markets and we're seeing the the
really the yield curve shift down across
all of the the maturities. So we think
that's really what's behind that. We
don't think however that the 10-year
gets much below 4%. You know, if you
just do a little simple math, 2% growth,
2% long-term inflation, you're at 4%
without a term premium. So, we really do
think that's probably about the floor
for the 10 year.
>> What's the relationship between that and
that view and what you expect to see in
equities?
>> Yeah. So, what we expect to see in
equities is um potentially some
choppiness here in the near term and
that has to do with a number of risks.
One of which is that we could see
inflation higher than the Federal
Reserve is comfortable with and the
markets may need to ratchet back some of
their uh rate cut expectations. And
there are a number of other risks that
we see that also could play into a
choppy market here. But longer term, we
see markets um recovering in 2026.
>> So you see that even if there is a sell-
off at the long end. I mean to me I
thought that one of the most interesting
notes overnight was Torson Slop coming
out and saying what are the implications
of not having a risk-free asset. There's
a question about whether the stock
market can power ahead even if there is
choppiness in yield curves as well.
>> Yeah. So what we're um what we're seeing
is that if there is choppiness in yield
curves and we also anticipate that we
could see um some lift at the long end
of the curve next year. However, we
don't think that it's going to be an
allout selloff of the US Treasury. The
US continues to have um the dollar is
the reserve currency of the world. Um
the US also has the ability to um issue
debt in a way that it can help to manage
what yields are further out the curve.
Uh so we don't really see those num
those numbers those yields rising so
significantly that it puts um a a rally
in the stock market in peril. And
>> this is one reason why some people are
saying that the recent rally at the long
end has more to do with expectations
around what the Fed can do in order to
uh adjust some of its policies to keep
yields within a certain level. I'm just
wondering Tracy going forward, what do
you think is going to be the leadership
of an ongoing stock rally? Do you
believe the sort of cyclical tilt that
we're seeing right now or do you think
it's going to be the tech giants that
keep powering it ahead?
>> Yeah, so really it's likely to be the
tech giants that continue to power us
ahead. Um our favorite sectors are
information technology, financials and
utilities. Information technology
because we do believe that uh the
investment in AI is really just getting
started and utilities benefit from the
buildout and the operation of those data
centers. Financials are benefiting from
um a a a yield curve um that's rising on
the long end. When you look at the
tariff impact, you talk about you write
in your note about they're arriving in
peace meal. What kind of timeline is
peace meal?
>> Yeah. So, uh obviously some tariffs have
already been implemented, but certainly
not to the uh extent that we thought uh
back in early April. Um what we see
happening is that um as court decisions
um come through that tell us whether or
not the current policy is legal um and
whether or not the administration has to
then um reconsider how they implement
tariffs that could cause the uh tariff
policy to be extended. And even as it is
today many tariffs are still in
negotiation so and still in flux. So we
see it being implemented, you know, ac
across the next few quarters at least.
>> So are you basically saying that we're
going to be living in tariff purgatory
almost maybe as long as the Trump
administration?
>> Well, we hope not. Uh we we do hope that
there is some clarity um over the next
couple of quarters.
>> Tracy, we got to leave it there. Thanks
for joining us. Tracy McMillan there of
Wells Fargo. Just got some breaking
news. Want to get you a quick update and
cross over to Yahara for more. Oh, hi
Yhara.
>> Hi, John. Exactly. President Donald
Trump says the suspect in the killing of
Charlie Kirk is in custody. He says
someone close to the suspect turned him
in. Meanwhile, Utah Governor Spencer Cox
says the state will pursue the death
penalty against Kirk's killer.
Meanwhile, Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson will meet with Chinese Vice
Premier Hila Fun in Madrid next week.
The two will discuss trade, economic,
and national security issues. The
discussions will also cover Tik Tok
status and efforts to combat money
laundering. A 90-day tr tariff truce
between the US and China is set to
expire in early November. And OpenAI is
moving closer to restructuring into a
more traditional for-profit model after
months of negotiations negotiations with
its top shareholder Microsoft. Chairman
Brett Taylor says the nonprofit pair
nonprofit parent will keep control
through a new public benefit corporation
and holds an equity stake worth at least
a hundred billion dollar but it's
restructuring faces opposition from Elon
Musk and state attorneys general brief
John Yhara thanks for that just to recap
the breaking news crossing just moments
ago from the president of the United
States thank he's just recently found
out that with a high degree of certainty
we have the suspect following the
killing of Charlie Kirk saying the
suspect is in custody and that according
to the president of the United States,
somebody close to the suspect turned him
in. The president going on to say that I
hope the killer of Charlie Kirk is found
guilty and gets the death penalty. More
on that story later this hour. Up next
on the program, we'll turn back to the
markets. The morning calls, plus Gil
Lauria of DA Davidson shaking up his big
tech outlook. That conversation up next.
Heat up
[Music]
here.
What type of uh uh uh overvaluation is
being placed by by investment or or
capex at this point really is in the
eyes and the ears of the beholder
because maybe the investments that are
being made across the 11 sectors to
participate in what AI can do really
position ourselves for what is genuinely
a new economy that we are moving
towards.
>> That was the biggest bull on Wall
Street. John Stalus of Oppenheimimer
looking for 7,100 on the S&P 500 year
end. We're getting closer. Equity
futures this morning pulling back just a
little bit. We're down a tenth of 1%,
but over the last week higher every
single day this week so far, Monday
through Thursday, a 4-day winning streak
on the S&P 500, taking us towards
another week of gains. Record highs on
the S&P, record highs on the NASDAQ
coming into Friday.
>> There have been 24 record highs on the
S&P 500 so far this year. There have
been 22 on the NASDAQ. This includes the
swoon that we saw after April 2nd, after
liberation day. It highlights how
offsides people have been who have
betted that this market would continue
to go down. And it highlights why some
people are saying the pain trade might
be up even now with all of these gains
behind us.
>> How comfortable are you with the new
story? Reaceleration. That's the real
risk here that things start to pick up
that the worst of the data is actually
behind us. It was June market calendar.
It was June. and the jobs data was
terrible and now move on, look ahead and
things are going to improve.
>> When have I ever been comfortable? I
think is probably the better way of
looking at it. And I would say just
about as comfortable as I am now with
that story, which is not very and really
the issue to me is is there some sort of
dissonance as Andrew Hollen Horse was
talking about between a bond market
that's pricing in a Fed that needs to
take action and pretty significantly and
a stock market that's rip roaring ahead.
Is there some sort of contradiction and
a reaceleration that's going to allow
the Fed to cut without inflation coming
along? It's so many different perfect
little pieces that come together that
sure I'm not comfortable, but that's
probably why there still is that
bearishness and probably why the bulls
are dancing all over them.
>> Are we reaching the limits of bad news
being good news? I was thinking about
that yesterday. Maybe it's not the claim
story that looks like Texas looks like a
freak oneoff, but are we reaching the
limits of that weak labor market story
being good for stocks? You
>> the issue to me is do we understand that
weak labor market story? I was looking
at a study coming out of one of the
regional feds yesterday and it was
pointing to the fact that the break even
rate of labor market creation in this
economy might be 30,000 not necessarily
150,000 like earlier this year on a
monthly basis. I'm just saying it's hard
for us to get our hands around exactly
what this market is in terms of labor
and I think that's underpinning some of
this idea that people are just
discounting it all together.
>> The up and down 1 hour and 15 minutes
away. We're down by not even a tenth of
1% on the S&P. That's the price action
this morning. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, UPS upgrading Alaska
Air to a buy, saying earnings are about
to quote take off. They are this morning
by more than 3%. Your second call from
Barclays upgrading GM to overweight,
seeing more upside potential with
further tariff deal easing still ahead
of us. The stock is up by 1.5%. And
finally, Beimo cutting its price target
on Adobe to 405, citing concerns about
its durable growth. The stock still
doing okay, positive by 2.5% in the
pre-market. Let's stick with tech. Wall
Street sentiment on Apple hitting a
5-year low after it unveiled a new line
of products earlier this week. Lber's
Mark Gman joins us now for more. Mark,
welcome to the program, sir. It's not
been a great time for Apple over the
last few months. We talked about a
upgrade super cycle for iPhones for the
last several years. It hasn't developed.
Do you see anything, Mark, in the latest
unveiling that's going to encourage
people to say, "Yeah, now's the time.
Let's upgrade."
>> Well, we haven't talked about an iPhone
super psych the last few years. Others
have talked about an iPhone super cycle.
Uh to me it it seems kind of obvious.
Design is what sells. New form factors
are what sells. Real AI features are
what sells. And over the last few years,
Apple has not had that. That's why I'm a
big believer in this year's release
because new designs, new colors, new
looks, new features, that's what sells.
So, I'm pretty optimistic uh for these
new 17 Pro and Pro Maxes because of the
new look, because of the camera
improvements, because of the new colors.
I would anticipate uh some semblance of
lines this time around in addition to
people simply wanting to check out the
iPhone Air. They might not buy it
because it's not very practical given
the battery life and camera constraints.
Uh but certainly, it's going to bring
people into stores to take a look. Mark,
one thing we've heard from a lot of
guests on the program, particularly the
Bears, of course, is that ultimately
it's not about looks, it's about
functionality. Now, what are you doing
with Apple intelligence? What steps have
they taken to improve things on that
front?
>> Well, I don't necessarily agree. I think
we're about a year away from people
really making purchase decisions in
regards to AI features. Uh, Apple has
definitely done a very poor job on
implementing AI. uh their roll out over
the past year and a half for their Apple
intelligence functionality has been
nothing short of a borderline disaster
for the company. Uh but it's not really
impacting purchases. We're still, like I
said, many months away from that being a
real factor. People buy phones because
they break their screen. People buy
phones because they want a new look and
people buy phones because they're they
run their battery uh into the ground.
But in terms of upcoming AI
integrations, you'll see a revamped Siri
in March. Can you promise me, Mark, that
if I drop this one, the air, that it
won't break?
>> I can't promise you, but it was actually
quite interesting. A couple Apple
executives uh did an interview with a
website called uh Tom's Guide I saw on
YouTube yesterday, and Greg Jaws, we
actually had a marketing handed his or
through his iPhone Air uh to one of the
journalists and asked them to try to
bend it in half because if you remember
when Apple did a super thin iPhone 6
Plus back in 2014, you could just bend
it in half like you're bending a piece
of paper almost, right? And this guy was
trying and trying and trying and he
could not bend that thing. Uh so I can't
promise you that if uh you do it, it
won't break. But clearly they're
confident enough on uh to have a
journalist on YouTube try to break it in
half and nothing happened.
>> Mark, appreciate your take, sir. Thanks
for making time for us this morning.
Mark there, one of the very best
following this story. Let's stick with
Apple. Gil Laura at DA Davidson
downgrading Apple shares to neutral with
a 250 price target. Gil joins us now for
more. Gil, welcome back. You heard Mark
there a little bit more constructive
about what the next year could bring.
How constrained do you think the growth
story is going to be and why don't you
think this story, the big unveil over
the last week is going to address that?
>> I do think that Bark is right about
there being a little bit of a different
form factor. The colors, the look is a
little different, which is what has in
the past driven some upgrade. But this
is the type of upgrade that maybe will
take us from iPhone being flat for the
last 5 years to up a few single digits.
That's probably not enough. To Mark's
point, until AI has a big impact and
drives an upgrade cycle, which was what
we were expecting last year and did not
materialize,
we're not going to get a big enough
upgrade cycle to drive the stock up from
here. That's where we're at is that
until they have another breakthrough,
until they have something very
dramatically different, a new category,
uh, a completely new form factor, it's
unlikely that we're going to get out of
this uh, low singledigit growth range.
>> But are they going to lose their install
base, Gil? And this is actually one of
the existential questions facing Apple,
especially as there's real competition
from the likes of Samsung uh, and
others. How much are other manufacturers
of smartphones luring people away from
the Apple ecosystem or is it just sort
of a waiting uh process until something
better comes along from Apple?
>> Apple turned out to be very sticky. The
handsets are very sticky. Once you get
into the ecosystem, especially have
multiple devices like the AirPods or the
watch or or Apple TV, uh then you're
very entrenched and and it's very hard
to get the consumer to leave the
platform. That is why Apple trades at a
premium. It trades at a premium because
it's so sticky. It's hard for me to
imagine 5 years from now not being in
the Apple ecosystem because of how it's
wrapped itself around my usage. uh that
is the big advantage of Apple. So even
with low singledigit growth, they can
grow services double digits. That's what
gives Apple that premium valuation which
is well justified.
>> Gil, given that sort of demand and you
see it if you have kids and if you do a
channel check at the high school and you
see that everyone has their uh various
Apple devices, I'm just wondering, was
it surprising to you that they weren't
able to raise pricing more on some of
these phones?
Yeah, that is a competitive issue,
right? If they start pushing the price
points higher and higher, they're going
to get less top of funnel. They're going
to get less new users. Parents are
increasingly going to uh have their kids
have Androids instead of iPhones if the
price point differential is big. They
did some subtle things. Putting the Air
where they did may encourage some people
to go to the pro level, $100 higher. So
those kinds of subtle things may
increase ASP a little bit, average
selling price a little bit, but not
significantly. And it's very hard for
them to raise prices at the low end
again because that's where the
competition is.
>> How constrained is Apple right now when
it comes to regulatory concerns in
Europe. When I walked into the studio
this morning, Jonathan was talking to me
about how the fact that this cool
feature, everyone was excited about the
AirPods that can have live language
translation actually won't be allowed in
the European Union because of the
digital markets act.
>> Well, the Europeans have regulated
themselves out of innovation for a while
now. I don't expect that to change, but
if the live translation feature works,
that could be a very attractive feature.
That can be a gamecher. Let's not forget
Google and Met have been trying this
with the glasses and they have pretty
shaky early versions of this. I would
imagine that if Apple went ahead and
showed us live translation on AirPods
a week ago, um then maybe this is real
and it will be very significant. And I
would expect if it does work that well
that the Europeans may reconsider that
because that would be a very uh a big
leap forward in terms of functionality.
>> Right. So, you think potentially they
need to prove that it's working and then
the Europeans might come around?
Speaking of Europe, do you expect Tim
Cook to go with the president next week?
>> He's doing his best to ingratiate
himself with the president. Uh it was
almost comical to see him present the
president with a golden statue. Uh I
think there it was almost biblical. So
hopefully that gets him close enough
with the president the president will
take him there and maybe even address
some of these concerns head on. Part of
our concern visa v Europe is that that
Europe is applying these non-tariff
barriers on big tech. Uh and so the
president's going to want to address
that. Part of it has to do with the very
restrictive regulations around uh the
the Apple store uh the Android store. Uh
and so that very well could be an
opportunity for Mr. Cook to improve that
situation in Europe.
>> Gil, before you go, shake up with your
Nvidia call as well. What's changed for
you? What do you see differently and
why?
>> We're very optimistic about the growth
of uh demand for AI compute based on how
much we're using these tools and how
powerful they're being. And Nvidia,
which has done incredibly well, hasn't
caught up to the rest of the AI trade.
It is now the most attractively part of
the AI trade. In fact, they're trading
at 28 times next year's earnings. That's
the same as Apple. Apple's going to grow
earnings 9 or 10% Nvidia is going to
grow earnings 30 or 40%. So for as well
as Nvidia has done the rest of the A
tried has done trade has done so well
that Nvidia is now the most attractively
priced within the AI trade.
>> Amazing Gil appreciate the call. Gil
Luri there of DA Davidson on both Apple
and Nvidia. What a week it's been for
the AI story. Oracle so far this week
still higher by more than 30%. We've
added $221 billion to the market cap of
that company this week
>> after they announced that they see a 77%
increase some of the demand for their
cloud computing services. Really
thrusting them into the race to really
cater to companies that are trying to
adapt to this AI technological boom. I'm
looking right now just Gloria's call for
Nvidia to be the lowest price or the
most attractive uh shares. Those stocks
are up 32% so far this year. So this is
the reason why people are getting a
little bit nervous. And then you have
the likes of people coming in and saying
on the relative basis they're behind.
They should be up that much more.
>> We're concentrating a lot of capital in
a handful of names.
>> Yeah, that's the risk. That's the risk,
but it's paying off at the moment.
That's for sure. NASDAQ futures higher
by a tenth of 1%. Up next, Stephanie
Roth of Wolf Research on rising rate cut
bets. Plus, Danny has your morning
movers. RH feeling the effects from
tariffs.
[Music]
the open about 60 minutes away. Stocks
just about positive on the NASDAQ going
into that on the S&P 500. Just a touch
negative. With your morning movers,
let's cross over to Danny for more. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. A couple good things going in
Microsoft's favor this morning. For one,
and perhaps the bigger one is Open AI
looking at restructuring that would make
it appear more like a classic for-profit
company. It settles a long dispute
between Microsoft and the company, helps
Microsoft keep its partnership.
Microsoft also settling with the EU and
avoiding a hefty fine around allegations
around its teams products with those
shares up about 1 and a3%. Elsewhere, it
appears to be a second day of a big
rally for Warner Brothers Discovery.
Yesterday was their single best day, up
some 39%. And this is because the
Ellison's are doing a classic media
rollup. Sky Dance Paramount backed by
the Ellison family looking at taking
over Warner Bros. dis bros Discovery
squishing the two together in a company
that had been looking at breaking apart.
So those shares up 8.5%.
Finally R8 shares getting crushed this
morning down 9% in their earnings. A
disappointment there and a cut around
tariffs about $30 million is the charge
they will be taking. But the CEO who
likes to use, let's say, colorful
language on the earnings call. Also
saying unless you want to go effing
bankrupt, you need to have discounts,
something like 30 to 40% on it. I know
you gave me permission to say the full
quote, but I'm I'm going to pass you on
that one.
>> It's Friday. You do you, Danny. Thank
you. Looking forward to the show in
about 30 minutes time with Matt Miller
and Danny Burgerer. Open interest just
around the corner. I think the RA story
is actually pretty important. Home
builders have rocketed through August
into September. Getting excited about
rate cuts. You don't hear the excitement
about rate cuts from that guy on that
call.
>> Yeah. They don't have pricing power. And
this is a question around how much does
that indicate true consumer push back.
How much does that indicate a sector
specific issue at a time when everybody
renovated during the pandemic and now
maybe aren't uh doing so as much and how
much is this a competitive disadvantage?
Right? Because some places have that
pricing power, other places not so much.
>> That's the latest on restoration
hardware. That stock down by close to
10%. Important headline just crossed the
Bloomberg terminal. I want to share it
with you and give you some details. The
US proposing broad G7 sanctions on
Russian energy in a renewed bid to end
this war.
>> So basically 100% tariff level when it
comes to Russian crude on places on
China and India for their purchase of
that Russian crude. Also they're telling
G7 countries that they should create a
legal pathway to seize Russian assets.
Basically a way to try to get Vladimir
Putin to the table and end this war. It
was a month ago. Secretary Bessant sat
around this table and said it's put up
or shut up time for the Europeans. They
have for months been trying to get the
Europeans to agree to alongside them
also raise the bar when it comes to
penalizing the Russians. And right now
they're making a serious push at the G7.
This turns into a game of who's going to
do it first and whether the US will
follow suit with big tariffs or
secondary sanctions I should say on the
likes of China and India. comes as Scott
Besson is poised to meet his counterpart
from China over the weekend to talk
about uh what could be setting the stage
for a day taunt or some sort of meeting
between Xiinping and Donald Trump. A
real question here about how this would
influence that should this get passed.
>> Busy few minutes of news here. Want to
draw your attention to this too. Forgive
me for changing topics quickly. Apple
these headlines just crossing. delaying
the iPhone Air launch in China, citing a
regulatory issue,
going on to say that the 1717 Pro 17 Pro
Max will still go on order in China. But
there is a delay. The latest information
just crossing Bremo.
>> Yeah. questioning around exactly what
type of regulatory issue this is and
whether Tim Cook once again is a part
and parcel of this trade dispute between
China and the US whether China is
targeting Apple for its origin or
whether this is something else we'll get
more information but this really does
highlight how much these tech companies
are very much intertwined with
discussions about trade between the US
and China
>> regulatory issue sounds like it is code
word for leverage we want to use at the
negotiating table, especially given the
fact, Lisa, Lisa, you just mentioned
Treasury Secretary is going into meeting
with Huli Fang. This feels like leverage
and also China reminding their national
champions that they want to back them
when it comes to consumption of iPhones
to their consumers and their economy.
>> For once, I'll hang back from
speculating. All I can say is that the
website says the iPhone Air is now
coming later, and we'll see how late
that iPhone delivery will actually come
over in China. Keep an eye on that. The
stock a little bit softer in the
pre-market at the moment. We're down a
few ten of 1%. Let's turn to the economy
ahead of next week's Fed decision.
Blindbe's Michael McKe joins us now for
more. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, imagine you
are Jay Powell and one of his or one of
his colleagues on the open market
committee and you've got to decide what
to do on Wednesday. You look at the
latest economic data and I'll go back a
week and a day and it isn't particularly
good. Two out of the three are not
particularly uh good news for the
economy and may suggest a rate cut
ahead. Unemployment has gone up since
the president took office and GDP has
gone down. The restraining factor is CPI
is now rising and rising relatively
quickly. So do you cut rates and if so
how far do you go? That's going to be
the question for Tuesday. And right now
the betting in the markets is we're
going to get 25 basis points. The real
question is going to be what happens in
October and December. Part of that may
depend on who's on the Fed. Here's the
latest scorecard for that story going
on. Uh the Trump administration has
asked the US Circuit Court of Appeals in
DC to rule by Monday on whether Lisa
Cook can keep her job as a fed governor
while all this is litigated. District
Court judge said yes. Now, the Trump
administration is asking for an
expedited decision on a no basis because
they want to keep her out of the meeting
next week. Cook's people have filed a
response that says you do that Monday
night before the meeting and you could
get chaos in financial markets. All
aside from the fact that it wouldn't be
the right thing to do, uh then Steven
Myron expected to be confirmed on Monday
night. So, he would attend the meeting
on Tuesday. And the meeting begins at
9:00 a.m. on Tuesday. So, it's going to
be a big Tuesday and Wednesday for the
Federal Reserve and for the markets,
keeping an eye on all these legal
matters as well as interest rates. Matt
McKe, thank you, sir. The big breakdown
going into the big meeting next week.
Sticking with the Fed, Stephanie Roth of
Wolf Research joins us around the table.
Stephanie, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Where's the Steven Murray dot going to
be next week?
>> I think we might need a new page for
that dot.
What kind of changes are you expecting
to the SEP?
>> I don't think there'll be that many
changes. I think we're still the Fed
will still probably look be looking for
for two cuts this year. Uh little
changes from an economic perspective.
The real thing is going to be how is
Powell going to message the the tone and
our expectation is it'll probably be
fairly doubbish in the sense that we
last heard Powell Jackson Hole. He was
dovish then. Since then the data have
gotten worse. So our expectation is
maybe next week we'll see some some
dovish sentiment around around the Fed.
Beyond that though, we might see strong
employment uh data, at least stronger
than what we've seen, and the narrative
could easily shift. So, we have maybe
one more week of this sort of soft,
dovish narrative, and then it might
certainly turn.
>> Do you think that he's got to have that
in mind when he offers guidance next
week? This is the big question for
markets. Is this the start of something
bigger, a one-off rate cut, a midcycle
adjustment, or are they going to deliver
the big deal? Go all the way down to
three and think about even getting
accommodative.
>> I think it's a a a path towards
something that's closer to neutral. So
call it 100 basis points. Their
expectation is certainly not to cut one
time and be done with it. Their
expectation is they want to cut closer
to neutral. They don't feel like they
need to be in restrictive territory just
given we have seen a slowdown in the
economy. I don't think it's anything
that's likely to be cut below below what
they see as neutral, but just tweak to a
level that's not so restrictive and then
they can kind of see from there. So
their expectation is to cut a couple
times this year, a couple times next
year and then they'll be at a level that
they that they want to stay at.
>> Cutting to neutral at a time where
inflation is still above the 2% target.
somewhere around two and a half percent.
Are we saying that inflation at two and
a half percent is not a constraining
factor for the Federal Reserve and
cutting rates to tackle the employment
part of their mandate? So, I think right
now the focus from them is on the the
employment side of the mandate just
because payrolls has slowed down so
much. Granted, unemployment rate has
kind of been okay. It's been fairly
steady. I think they're concerned about
the the direction of travel that we've
seen in payrolls. So, our expectation is
they're they're certainly emphasizing
the employment side of the mandate at
least for this meeting. Beyond that,
it's very possible that they're going to
have to focus more on the inflation side
of the mandate. If we get if if we get a
September payroll sprint that comes in
fairly solid and some upward revisions
to August, the picture might look quite
different. How wrong are we getting this
labor market? And I asked this given the
fact that people have talked about
immigration that this is a supply side
story more than anything else. It's also
at a time where consumers keep spending.
They wouldn't be spending so much if
they really felt like the world was
falling off a cliff. And you still see
the unemployment rate hovering at a
relatively low level of 4.3%. What are
we getting wrong? What are we missing
here about whether this is a good or a
bad labor market? I think what we're
missing is the emphasis on headline job
growth. At at the start of the summer,
we were talking about and certainly on
this show that job growth should slow
down substantially. The unemployment
rate should be largely steady and wage
growth should be fine. That's a signal
that it's a supply side story impacting
the labor market. Of course, there's an
element of supply and demand, but we
think it's more so on the supply side.
Looking ahead, there's reasons that the
demand side of the economy should pick
up. We're going to move past economic
uncertainties that ties to tariffs.
We're going to have lower uh easing
financial conditions which should boost
growth. Fiscal should start to become a
positive. So even though we have
slowdown partially from a demand side,
that should move in the in the positive
direction. Then we're just left with the
supply side, which is just a headwind on
regular, you know, job growth, but not
really a a real risk for for the job
market. It's just telling us that the
supply side has slowed down. I want to
pick on a point you made about there's
still this concern about inflation and
potentially revisions or maybe better
payrolls reports upcoming. What does the
Fed do then? Do you see a world where
they potentially have to hike next year?
No, I don't think they'll have to hike
next year. I think they'll be in an
environment the the in the pausing would
be kind of the new hike in the sense. So
what they what you would see is an
environment where they cut a couple of
times and then they're in an environment
where they want to wait and see where
things how how the inflation data plays
out and inflation may stay a little
above 3% for some time. So it's just
enough to be uncomfortable but not
enough to to make them change policy in
a big way.
>> Even pausing when we're going to get a
new Fed chair.
>> Well, that's the that's the challenge.
So we'll probably see a one or two cuts
this year, one or two cuts at the
beginning of next year. Uh and then
we'll they'll have to kind of weigh it
out. But the the the names for the Fed
chair, if you have some someone like
Waller, I think there's such potential
that they'll they'll be able to to pause
and and wait it out for a little bit.
>> Are you struggling to formulate a view
post May next year about what this Fed's
going to do? Just how difficult is it as
an economist at the moment just watching
all of this play out down in Washington,
a big interview process? Is it difficult
to make guesses about what's going to
happen after May next year?
>> So, I think what's what's interesting
about this environment is it's hard to
to have an economic forecast and a Fed
forecast that goes together. So in in a
typical environment, if you give
economists a set of same assumptions,
they'll have a very direct path in terms
of what the Fed's going to do. This
time, you can give economists a set of
assumptions and they may have different
forecasts for what the Fed's going to
do. So it's not just about forecasting
the economy, but then it's also
forecasting the the the Fed's framework.
And that's what's been so challenging in
this environment. So for for the
economy, our sense is we'll see a labor
market that that looks just fine. Uh
growth that's starting to pick up,
inflation that's a little bit elevated.
The question is how is the Fed going to
approach that? They want to get towards
neutral, but inflation is running above
their target. So, our census will cut a
couple more times, 100 basis points, and
then they'll probably want to stay there
just given the inflation will still be a
little bit.
>> And just to be super clear here, you're
not confused by what's happening with
Washington because of the White House.
You're confused because of the reaction
function shift of Chairman Pal. Has that
been the most confusing element of this?
>> That's been that's been one of the most
confusing elements so far is just what
data are they focused on? What should we
all focus on uh to follow the Fed? What
what are the key elements of the
framework? that hasn't that's been
changing throughout the past couple of
years and that's what's been so
challenging in terms of following the
Fed.
>> I'll say this for you because you're
alluding to it and I'll make it a little
bit more direct. That's a failure of the
Federal Reserve and the chairman himself
to not be clear about this and and I
would go back to the news conference
with the Federal Reserve last time
around. The chairman anchored his view
on the labor market around the
unemployment rate. Then the chairman
gets to Jackson Hole one bad payrolls
report later. Big step down in payrolls.
I get it. And his view is now anchored
around payrolls. even though
unemployment's been pretty steady
through summer. So, he's completely
changed the way he looks at the labor
market and what anchors that view. Now,
I'm not sitting here saying that one was
wrong and the other's right. That's not
my position. I'm not in a position to
make that point. What I'm saying is just
very different what we heard from him in
the news conference and what we heard
from him in Jackson Hole.
>> Yeah. The Federal Reserve has changed
its stance on a number of things. The
reaction function has been more confused
just simply because this economy has
also been really hard to pinpoint. You
get five people in a room, they all have
different opinions about what's going to
happen and they might change their
opinions in six months. So I do think
you are correct. It has been a failure
to communicate the reaction function. A
question here is I would ask this on
Wall Street. Do people have a consensus
around what the reaction function should
be or is it just as splintered there
because of the confusions of the moment?
I mean I'm not justifying it. I think
that this is uh true in terms of the
market's difficulty in understanding
this.
>> A critic of Powell would say that he was
protecting himself politically. He
opened the door and basically said,
"Look, Mr. President, I opened the door
to the Fed cutting. The rest of the
committee, it's a deliberative body,
needs to walk through it."
>> Stephanie, it's good to see you. Thanks
for dropping by. Thank you very much,
Stephanie Roth there of Wolf Research
with the latest. Lots of news breaking
in the last 10 minutes or so. Let's get
you a wrap of that. Here's Yahara with
more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Exactly, John. And we start with the
latest on Charlie Kirk. A suspect in the
shooting of the conservative activist is
in custody according to President Trump.
Speaking just earlier, Trump said that a
minister and the suspect's father were
involved in helping to apprehend the
suspect who you can see there in that
surveillance video. Kirk was shot and
killed on Wednesday during an event at
Utah Valley University, which spurred an
extensive manhunt.
Meanwhile, the US is stepping up its
efforts to end Russia's war on Ukraine.
And according to a proposal seen by
Bloomberg, the US will urge its G7
allies to impose tariffs as high as 100%
on China and India for their purchases
of Russian oil. It will also tell G7
countries they should create a legal
pathway to seize immobilized sovereign
Russian assets.
And another breaking story, Apple is
delaying the launch of its new iPhone
Air in China. The company's China
website would not let customers order
the new thinner device when pre-orders
started today. Instead, shoppers got a
message saying, "Release information
will be updated later. All models will
be released after approval. An Apple
spokesperson didn't immediately respond
to a request for comment." That's your
brief Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next,
we'll set you up for the day ahead, a
sneak peek of next week, and we'll catch
up with Krishna Mani of Lap College from
New York City. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
You have the Fed rate cuts helping those
sectors of the economy that are very
rate sensitive. What people don't know
that today the US economy is not as rate
sensitive as it was. It just isn't
because the service sector is much less
rate sensitive. But the sectors that are
rate sensitive, they're going to be
another kicker for the US economy in 26.
>> Always enjoy catching up with Steven
North of Federated Hermes. Looking
forward to a better year in 26. Looking
forward to 7500 on the S&P 500 year end
next year. Equities at the moment on the
S&P 500 as we count you down to the
opening bound just a little bit
negative. We're down about a tenth of
1%. 41 minutes until the opening bout.
Here's your trading diary. 10 a.m.
Eastern time. A little bit later this
morning.
sentiment. Monday, looking ahead to next
week, the Senate voting on Steven
Murren's Fed nomination. Tuesday, some
more data for you. Retail sales on
Wednesday, a Fed rate decision. Plus,
the president traveling to the UK. On
Thursday, another round of jobless
claims. And we'll squeeze in a Bank of
England interest rate decision as well.
That's the week ahead. Let's focus on
one decision, the Federal Reserve. Chris
Mani, the chief investment officer at
Lafayette College, writing CPI came in
hotter than expected, both core and
headline, and it's broadening. That's
not something the Fed is gonna like.
Krishna joins us now for more. Krishna,
good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Isn't it something the Fed set us up to
ignore?
>> Uh well, so I I think for one meeting,
sure. I think uh in Jackson Hole
basically u Mr. Pal gave the plot away
as to what is going to happen in in
September. The real question is what is
going to happen subsequent to uh
September, October, December next year.
And uh if you look at the uh employment
data that clearly has softened over but
I think if you look at consumption data
it's kind of hard to reconcile the
spending that we see in the economy with
respect to and and reconcile it with
what the employment data is showing and
there may be lot of buffering going on
because of tariff and kind of delays
that ensued after liberation day. We'll
find out in due time. My suspicion is
that it'll be economy is in decent shape
and the real question for the market is
to determine whether we are in 95 98
2000 or are we in 2001 2008 from a
economy and cutting uh cutting
standpoint.
>> Do you think then that the uh the yield
decline that we've seen in the long end
of the yield curve is a head fake?
>> I I think it is it is recognizing the
potential of a softening economy. So,
not a head fake, but I think misguided
would be a better uh better way to
phrase it.
>> So, can you walk us through the
progression of what you see? Because one
thing we've talked about a lot on this
show is whether the Fed is cutting into
a reaceleration or whether Fed cuts are
going to ignite that reaceleration of
growth and it matters for inflation. It
matters for the nature of this rally or
not. How do you see things? Well, so I I
think uh if the Fed cuts and it's re
reignites the economy, there has to be a
sufficient amount of lag relative to
that for things to work through the the
a very large economy. So I I I don't
think if they cut that would be the
cause of reaceleration. If it
reacelerates it will be because the
economy was not uh that soft to begin
with and they cut because of all sorts
of reasons. And you know if you go back
and look at last year we were not too
different from at the same point last
year as well.
>> Do you think the same thing's going to
happen in terms of
>> I I suspect that that is what is going
to happen as well
>> when it comes to the inflation. So are
you concerned about some of the
components we saw yesterday with sharp
acceleration going up? Well, so I again
if if you look at the the uh the data
flow the the acceleration can be recon
you know it's what is causing the
acceleration you know goods or services
and I can that sort of gives you a
little bit of clue so the data headline
number is was hot the the core numbers
were hot but they are not totally out of
the context of the Fed kind of trending
lower with kind of keeping an eye on
what's going on in the real economy. So
if the Fed cuts, we have a repeat of
last year. What do they do about the
long end of the yield curve that's
attached to mortgage rates?
>> Well, so I I think that's really the
question. But you know, we are
singularly focused on the Fed, what the
Fed is going to do. However, the Fed can
continue to cut and if the economy
reacelerates, the bond market is not
going to kind of take it very lightly
and the the long end of the market is
probably going to sw sell off and the
curves are going to steepen and
therefore you may not get the oomph in
the cyclical part of the economy that
you may be expecting out of uh uh out of
Fed cuts. So yeah, uh the you know Trump
administration may control the Fed, but
the likelihood that they will move the
economy in a meaningful way because of
rate cuts I I I think is up in the air.
>> We've known each other a long time and
per periodically I've come to you around
turning points to try and get your view
of the world and I remember going back a
long time and you've got a decent record
of doing this. I don't I struggle with
it for obvious reasons. It's hard. You
said it's either the mid90s or 2001
2008. They're two very different
environments.
>> Absolutely.
>> What's guiding you to make that decision
if it's one and not the other?
>> Well, so I I think you you have to look
at the fiscal impulse in the economy.
You know, deficit spending. Is it low or
is it contracting? The answer is no. Do
you think there are technological
innovations that are taking place that
may drive investments and things like
the answer is yes. So in in that context
it looks more like 9598 than it looks
like 2001208
when we were come we were heading into a
dislocated kind of agents in the economy
and delevering that that ensued. I don't
think that is the case this time around.
>> So buy stocks and not bonds.
>> Yes. I I think bonds are I I think bonds
are in a range in my judgment. You know
three and a half to let's say slightly
above four and a half. when they get
there you buy bonds and when they get
closer to four you sell. Stocks on the
other hand you know nominal instruments
we have decent uh nominal growth and it
may accelerate and so they probably keep
up. I think they do just fine.
>> What's the risk-free asset then?
>> Well that's that's an interesting
question. I think the risk-free asset at
the moment is really cash for that
matter. You know that's that's the only
thing that you know it's not bonds. you
know, you know, bonds would be a riskier
free asset, if you will, at four and a
half, four and three/4ers over 10 years
as opposed to at 4% given what the
inflation picture and what the growth
outlook is.
>> Krishna, you've given us a lot to think
about. We appreciate it going into the
weekend. Thank you, sir.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks for being here. Christian Mani
there of Lafett College. Stocks over
bonds is the mid90s. It's not the end of
this. This is really the theme that I'm
hearing from everybody this morning that
if you believe in inflation running a
bit hotter than it has been in the past,
you believe in this sort of
reaceleration. Well, bonds aren't going
to offer it to you, even dividend paying
stocks, probably a better upside hedge
to any kind of growth than bonds.
>> Is there a risk-free asset in the world
of Trump where we are reshaping the
geopolitical and economic landscape
around the world?
>> So far, it's gold. At least so far this
year.
>> It's not the traditional bond market.
Coming up on Monday as we count you down
to a big week next week. We'll be
catching up with Lori Calvacina of RBC.
Christian Nelting of Deutsche Bank,
Henred Trace of Vader Partners, Greg
Peters of PGM counting you down to a Fed
decision statement forecast news
conference. All of that coming next
Wednesday from New York City this
morning. Good morning to you all. Have a
wonderful weekend with your loved ones.
Thank you very much for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]